id,title,selftext,url,created_utc,num_comments,upvotes,subreddit
1bpu3sq,A question about Red Dragon by Thomas Harris ,"Sometimes I end up reading book series in the wrong order. In this case, I started with Silence of the Lambs, pushed on through Hannibal and finished up with Red Dragon. I didn’t particularly plan this, but that’s how it went. Like many others my age, I picked these books up because I’ve loved the on-screen versions of Dr Lecter - both Hopkins and Mikkelsen.

I remember watching the Red Dragon movie many years go but I really don’t recall anything about it, so I was looking forward to a fresh experience. All I really knew about the book was that it was the introduction to Hannibal as a character, but I was under the impression that he was Will Graham’s therapist (thanks to the TV show). I wasn’t displeased at all to find out how wrong I was. I thoroughly enjoyed Dolarhyde and the book in general, but I am confused about something…

Essentially, I don’t understand Dr Hannibal’s inclusion in the story at all. I hope by now you all realise that I love him as a character and I’m super grateful he exists, but his role in this particular book doesn’t really make any sense to me. In short: Dr Lecter’s purpose in the book is to have 1 uncomfortable meeting with Graham, vaguely offer advice that frankly wasn’t huge, write 1 letter to Dolarhyde pointing him to Graham, and then write a couple letters to Graham just to freak him out. There’s no relationship between him and Crawford, he hardly helps the investigation, he didn’t really need to turn Dolarhyde to Graham (I’m sure the Dragon would’ve done that), there’s no great psychological manipulation of Graham from Lecter, etc. 

His role in this story would make a boatload more sense if Hannibal and Will had the relationship of therapist and patient (as in the TV show) or at very least had some kind of cat and mouse hunt for each other before Hannibal was imprisoned. But as far as I can see, Will just knew he was guilty by chance on their first meeting.

The only possible answer to my question (that I can see) is that Harris was setting up Hannibal for the next few books, but honestly that’s a pretty weak argument considering how he’s almost irrelevant to every character. Wouldn’t a better set up be to give Lecter a little bit more substance to grow from? The other side of this coin iss that Lecter was incidental and Harris only explored that idea later. But if that’s the case, why on earth did he even include the character? I think what I’m trying to get at is that if I had read this book when it had come out, the entire existence of Hannibal Lecter would make no sense to me from a story-telling perspective in this book alone. 

I loved this book but I am perplexed. ",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/1bpu3sq/a_question_about_red_dragon_by_thomas_harris/,2024-03-28 12:14:24,18,14,books
11eg0lh,Hannibal Lecter in The Red Dragon,"There is a moment when they are talkingabout what he might be, like a psychopath or sociopath or what exactly. Graham says that the psychologists said that he is a sociopath mainly because they did not know where else to put him. Then he said that Lecter meets some of the criterias for a sociopath, that does not have any remorse, no guilt and also that he was sadictic towards animals when he was a child, which confused me.

I read the books not the order they were published but how (I hope atleast) would go chronologically. So I started with Hannibal rising, where was Hannibal as a child but there was not a single moment where he would be sadistic towards any animal, if anything the animals were actually the ones he was quite compassionate to. When Hannibal killed Paul Momund (the butcher) he set the fish Paul caught earlier free and took only the one Paul already killed. Same with the birds in Kolnas's restaurant, he did not have to open the cage and set them free but he did, I think he actually took one of the ones that did not want to fly away and made sure he will not stay in the cage. And he was nothing but kind and friendly towards their Horse (Cesar I think?). 

So I was just confused while I was reading the part about Hannibal being mean to animals I guess. Or not sure if I didn't, like miss something?",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/11eg0lh/hannibal_lecter_in_the_red_dragon/,2023-02-28 18:32:07,16,20,books
uath7l,Red Dragon…,"Lately I’ve been reading popular, fast paced thrillers - Colleen Hoover, Lisa Jewel, Alex Michaelides with the occasional Taylor Jenkins Reid and Kristen Hannah thrown in for good measure. I read them fairly quickly, just a few days or a week at most. 

I tried to up my game a bit and went with Red Dragon (Silence of the Lambs) and can’t get into it. I recognize that the writing is good, great even. Better quality than what I normally read, but I just can’t get excited about it. Im normally going up to bed early so I can read as much as I can but I haven’t even picked this book up in days. 

Is it just me, or is this book a little dull…",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/uath7l/red_dragon/,2022-04-24 12:13:19,13,5,books
8bqgck,Red Dragon by Thomas Harris is amazing.,"It is one of the best thrillers I have ever read. I haven't read many books as captivating as this one. It's disturbing, suspenseful and, at times, plain scary. It has one of the best written villains in all of literature in my opinion. Francis Dolarhyde is brutal and unpredictable. You feel both scared of and sorry for him. I loved how scarce Hannibal Lecter was in the book, yet his actions influenced the direction of the story so much. The part where Graham meets him for the first time in the hospital sent shivers down my spine. Speaking of Graham, I thought he was a brilliant character. A damaged, traumatized man who is dragged back into the life he barely escaped. 

Anyone who is looking for a good psychological horror/thriller should pick this book up. It is must read.   ",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/8bqgck/red_dragon_by_thomas_harris_is_amazing/,2018-04-12 14:13:27,46,165,books
jsplz0,Just finished Red Dragon by Thomas Harris. A very interesting crime story.,"So first off all, when I was researching about this series I learned that Red Dragon was the first book. I found that interesting because I always assumed Silence of the Lambs was the first book.

I very much enjoyed the book,  very well thought out storytelling. I find it funny, there's a big banner on the cover that says ""Meet Hannibal Lecter for the first time!"" And while he is the reason most people would read the book, he really is not a prominent character in the story at all. That being said, it was a fascinating read and if all you know about this series is Hannibal I still think it's well worth the read. 

One thing I particularly enjoyed was the spent character perspectives. That is something that I always love in books, a story being told from different angles. Stephen King does this a lot and that's probably why he is my favorite author. 

All things said I highly recommend it. I've never seen the movie so I had no prior knowledge of the plot going into it, there were a few twists and turns that I absolutely loved. I'm excited to continue the series, I've seen the movie of Silence of the Lambs but I am very interested to read the original story.",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/jsplz0/just_finished_red_dragon_by_thomas_harris_a_very/,2020-11-12 06:15:13,44,115,books
kbo2ge,"Just Finished The Audiobook of ""Red Dragon"" by Thomas Harris [Spoilers]","I really thought this book was amazing: the slow burn of Will Graham slowly piecing together the mystery, while we the audience follow Dolarhyde and learn his backstory, the clever traps they set up just to be foiled when they find out Lounds was the target instead, these are all masterfully done and filled me with anxiety to know what would happen next (this is also my first audiobook as I'm allowed to have headphones in during my new shift at work).

HOWEVER.

I really didn't care for the ending. The whole book builds up Dolarhyde as kind of a sympathetic character, his whole childhood was spent being abused and abandoned by his family, confusing abuse and anger as love, until he finally meets Reba and begins to experience love and acceptance. I think the ""ending"" of him killing himself because he can't bring himself to kill Reba himself was beautifully done, and actually made me tear up slightly. But then, a few chapters later, it turns out that it was all a ruse and that he actually killed someone else in order to fake his death and chase after Will. It makes the ending feel more akin to a slasher flick where you think the villain is dead and then they come back for one final scare, and it really cheapens what I felt to be a very emotional and well done scene.

Does anyone share my view? And if not, what do you think of the ending? I'm definitely open to other points of view and discussion!",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/kbo2ge/just_finished_the_audiobook_of_red_dragon_by/,2020-12-12 12:05:13,22,15,books
i6p2hp,My thoughts on Red Dragon by Thomas Harris,"Red Dragon is probably one of my favorite books and only took 6 days for me to read. It really is a whole lot better than the movie which didn't include the origins of Francis Dollarhyde. In the movie you just feel that he's some psycho that likes a blind girl but in the book you can't help but to feel bad for him. I mean he has a mother who didn't love him, an abusive grandmother, and his step siblings beat the crap out of him. I mean it's just a masterpiece that really puts you in his shoes. So to me it is a must read.",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/i6p2hp/my_thoughts_on_red_dragon_by_thomas_harris/,2020-08-09 19:08:47,11,10,books
6djx9a,Anyone have an opinion on Thomas Harris' Red Dragon?,"Silence of the Lambs the movie sparked my interest in reading it, then I found out that there's a book before it that introduces Hannibal, Red Dragon. I decided I would try that one first, might as well right? But I was also wondering if it was worth it and if I should just start with silence of the lambs or not.
Curious what you all have to say!",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/6djx9a/anyone_have_an_opinion_on_thomas_harris_red_dragon/,2017-05-26 21:48:36,29,17,books
2vbt0y,"Red Dragon. Alright, alright, alright.","I'm a huge fan of Hannibal on NBC, and even bigger fan of The Silence of the Lambs (movie), so I was overdue to begin Thomas Harris's novels.

Started Red Dragon yesterday and ended up reading the first 140 pages throughout the day. Harris writes beautifully, somehow managing to keep the pace brisk without sacrificing the flavor of his language.

Best of all, his characters come to life in a truly remarkable way. Hannibal in particular. Even though I've seen Anthony Hopkins and Dude From Casino Royale (what's his name?) play the role to perfection, there's something nonetheless unique, and uniquely haunting, about Hannibal on the page.

And from what I've heard, The Silence of the Lambs is an even better read.

Interested to hear from others who've read these books.",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/2vbt0y/red_dragon_alright_alright_alright/,2015-02-09 19:00:43,16,9,books
b8y0wh,Red Dragon by Thomas Harris - movie/book comparison,"I'm thinking of reading Red Dragon by Thomas Harris. I've seen the movie (the Edward Norton version, I haven't seen Manhunter) several times and really like it. I was just wondering if the book and movie are different enough that it'll be interesting. No spoilers, obviously. Just curious if it'll feel like I already know what's going to happen or if the movie took things in a different direction than the book.",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/b8y0wh/red_dragon_by_thomas_harris_moviebook_comparison/,2019-04-03 13:34:30,11,11,books
6fasd2,Red Dragon Books and Movies,"I was recently recommended the Hannibal books after mentioning I hadn't read any of them or seen any of the adaptations....I usually like watching movie adaptations after finishing the books, so I was wondering should I 

(A)  Read every book, then watch the movies (book1,book2,book3,movie1,movie2,movie3)

Or

(B, the choice I would rather go with) Watch each movie after each book (book1,movie1,book2,movie2)

I can see how this would be generally a preference thing, but I'm mainly asking because I don't want to be spoiled by any future events that'll happen in later books by seeing a movie that reveals anything",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/6fasd2/red_dragon_books_and_movies/,2017-06-05 00:12:09,8,2,books
280gsr,"Finished Reading Red Dragon, Wow.","I've always been interested in the Hannibal concept and decided to read the books by Thomas Harris. I finished Red Dragon after only three days and I must say, wow. It was just fantastic, I couldn't help but stay up to 3 am reading, even though I had school. I just could not put this book down. ",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/280gsr/finished_reading_red_dragon_wow/,2014-06-13 00:47:19,12,6,books
1021iiw,Just finished Silence of the Lambs (book) Who do you think is more disturbing Francis Dolarhyde from Red Dragon or Buffalo Bill? Who do you think is a better villain? And why,"The two serial killers who are main antagonists of their own film/book. 
I would say by virtue wearing a skinsuit, Buffalo Bill might be more disturbing, but the idea of Francis who is physically dominant, able to execute long term plans like portraying an art appraiser so he could see the original Red Dragon, and that he had complete access to video records of the homes he was hitting gives its own terror.",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/1021iiw/just_finished_silence_of_the_lambs_book_who_do/,2023-01-03 07:29:21,5,3,books
1fznpp,Opinions/suggestions on Red Dragon and Silence of the Lambs!,"Hi everyone! I would like your thoughts on these two books. Would it make any difference if I read Silence of the Lambs first? I know that Red Dragon was written first. For those that have read one or both of these books, what did you think?! I have always been interested in dark/twisted books and I am currently reading Sanctuary by William Faulkner. Now I am looking for my next good read, so any and all thoughts would be greatly appreciated!",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/1fznpp/opinionssuggestions_on_red_dragon_and_silence_of/,2013-06-09 17:31:29,7,1,books
3rk7xz,Do I need to read Red dragon and Silence of the lambs before reading Hannibal?,I was giving Hannibal from a friend but did some research and saw the red dragon and silence of the lambs came before it. I just wanted to know if you need to read those book before starting Hannibal. I have watched the first two season's of Hannibal and some of the third season.,https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/3rk7xz/do_i_need_to_read_red_dragon_and_silence_of_the/,2015-11-04 23:53:22,10,0,books
duv2n,Can anyone help me interpret a weird question about Thomas Harris' Red Dragon?,"For my english class I am reading Thomas Harris' Red Dragon and Silence of The Lambs to do a Thesis question on. I chose my question to be something involving the conditions in which Harris creates to motivate his psychopaths. However, my teacher advised that this question may be too broad and fit under sociology rather than english studies.

He told me that I should read another piece of non-fiction about psychopaths and then find out how Harris tries  to ""sell"" his portrayal of a psychopathic killer.

I dont quite understand this question. I assume Harris has romanticized the methods and motives of his killers to create greater emotion within the reader...However, I'm not sure what I am supposed to compare this with (or even why).

Can anyone add some advice to give me a better understanding?",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/duv2n/can_anyone_help_me_interpret_a_weird_question/,2010-10-22 12:46:43,12,9,books
3e56rk,So I just read the Foreward in Red Dragon by Thomas Harris,"https://sites.google.com/site/lektalekton/Home/forward-to-a-fatal-interview 

I found this to be simply breathtaking. How common of a writing style is it for an author experience his book in such a way? Harris seems alienated from the characters and goes so far as to say he was jealous of Lecter because he understood Starling better than he could! He seemed to not know where the story was going and just experienced it as a fly on the wall!",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/3e56rk/so_i_just_read_the_foreward_in_red_dragon_by/,2015-07-22 01:18:29,1,7,books
8r2a95,"The Red Wyvern, by Katherine Kerr","The title is, the Red Wyvern.

The series is, the Dragon Mage.

The cover is a knight fighting a big ole winged reptile.

Am I being silly for thinking that there were going to be dragons in this book? There are no dragons in this book.

On the theme of ""don't judge a book by its cover"" what do people think of this tactic? I mean obviously it's a little shallow of me to think ""any book with dragons is great, and a compelling narrative with relate-able characters who aren't dragons is terrible"" but, on the other hand, any art is an expectations game. If people go to experience art and expect something and that thing isn't presented, that's generally a negative.

Am I being silly for being disappointed at the total lack of dragons? Is it wrong for a book cover to triply promise dragons and then not deliver? (Obviously fill in your own blank here, it doesn't have to be dragons we're talking about, just for a book to expressly promise something and then not deliver.)

What are your thoughts?",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/8r2a95/the_red_wyvern_by_katherine_kerr/,2018-06-14 14:29:05,12,6,books
e9aoh,"I have the option of reading Harris' ""Red Dragon"" or ""Silence of the Lambs"". Which is best?","I only have time to read one.

Can anyone make recommendations which would be best in terms of having the more believable/awesome antagonist?
",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/e9aoh/i_have_the_option_of_reading_harris_red_dragon_or/,2010-11-21 00:11:12,3,2,books
pgdbom,Review: Red Rising by Pierce Brown,"Somehow, this 125,000 word Sci-Fi novel packed in so much more than I've read in many other novels going beyond 150,000 words. Honestly, I see so many reviews claiming this is a simple aged up and darkened version of the Hunger Game, and while there were certainly some parallels that could be drawn, this book was SO MUCH MORE. I'll be a little brief and vague in this review to avoid ruining the book for something, though feel free to remind me of something I missed in the comments. This review is non spoiler btw. Also, I'm not great at reviews, so prepare yourself for poor structure and weird description.

The plot and character work holds the real juice of everything going on here, and Pierce Brown executed both masterfully; making sure to leave enough depth and detail to every character to make them 3D and interesting, while also not going too much into detail that we start to get bored. I felt some Tau vibes from Rage of Dragons, but something I loved tremendously, considering Rage of Dragons is another favourite of mine.

I admit, the present tense narrative certainly took awhile to get used to, and while it did take a 2nd attempt to get hooked, the prose really does grow on you after awhile. It conveys perfectly the humour, sadness, seriousness, anger, confusion, literally anything you can think of.

As for the Sci-Fi tech itself, I don't think Red Rising is neccesarily hard sci-fi considering not much attention was paid to the sci-fi ideas; there were certainly quite a few cool things explained that I enjoyed, but generally I don't think it considered a dominant role here. Red Rising certainly lies more towards the side of Military Sci-Fi, and conveys the epicness of things flawlessly. The strategy, the scheming, the politics, the planning, all played a pretty big role here, and I loved every bit of it. I don't think too much of the effort was focused on the combat either , though whatever combat there was certainly was written well. There were definitely times I thought Darrow was acting cocky and stuff, but he follows shit through to the end and shows me time and time again that he's not some random knucklehead. Again, while it may not be a hard sci-fi novel (thats what I think at least), Red Rising is a great read for anyone interested in Game of Thrones type politics, with backstabbings and betrayals but a fair share of emotional friendships and bonds.

Of course as you might expect, Red Rising is significantly dark, and there's also a fair bit of gore, but I don't think it's as bad as you may imagine, and is similar to other adult SSF novels in that sense. However, that does not mean the gut punches are to be taken lightly, cause Pierce Brown makes you cry whenever he wants to. The only complaint I may actually have about Red Rising is how short it was somehow, so much happens here I wish a little more time was spent on character growth, so I suppose it is fast paced in that sense with some slow moments. But if a book makes you enjoy the world so much that you wanna spend more time in it, the book should definitely be considered a success. Which reminds me, the worldbuilding itself was dope as heck, though I'm hoping Brown works up his style of describing surroundings since it kinda confused me in the beginning.

But I'll stop my rambling here and let you know what I actually loved here; the politics, the examination of the concept of the hierarchal society as a whole, the baddassery of Darrow and his actions, the friendships and relationships, and just how much the plot surprises me in amazing ways constantly. Epic battle and one on one duels always delivery in the hype built up to them beforehand, with the sheer geniusness of the strats. The cross examination of the structure of Society is definitely something to pay attention to btw, with the fascinating system of colours and the internal rankings. Again, while it may not be a hard sci-fi novel (thats what I think at least), Red Rising is a great read for anyone interested in Game of Thrones type politics, with backstabbings and betrayals but a fair share of emotional friendships and bonds that consume every part of your life. All in all, this book takes a solid 8/10, with the remainder being taken since people say the sequels only get better, and also because of the criticism I mentioned. I honestly can't wait to progress in the series, and am already considering getting book 4 in advance.

Hope you enjoyed the review, and do let me know any tips you have on writing a better review!",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/pgdbom/review_red_rising_by_pierce_brown/,2021-09-02 07:55:30,40,76,books
exod6,"Can anyone help me determine the themes and symbolism within Harris' ""Red Dragon"" and ""S.O.T.L""","I have finished reading Thomas Harris' *Red Dragon* and *The Silence of The Lambs*, now I am trying to determine their symbolic significance as well as the hidden agenda of Harris.

Looking at Lambs, I can see major themes are insecurity, (which is exhibited in both Gumb and Starling) transformation and the lack of parental role.

Red Dragon seems to be more about the cultivation of a psychopath and mental instability...There's probably something in relation to Dolarhyde's feelings towards Reba.

I would love to hear the opinion of anyone who has read into either of these novels.",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/exod6/can_anyone_help_me_determine_the_themes_and/,2011-01-07 03:48:31,3,2,books
acf333,Currently reading Red Storm Rising.,"I am reading Tom Clancy's epic war novel *Red Storm Rising* for the second time. Even though I felt bogged down at times by the sheer technicality of the prose, the military action is amazingly plotted well. It is basically a wargame slash a war movie with characters in the crossfire.

Anyone here who is a fan of Clancy? If so, what are your favorite works of his?",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/acf333/currently_reading_red_storm_rising/,2019-01-04 05:46:46,44,15,books
tazjey,"I'm absolutely blown away by how much Tom Clancy got right in Red Storm Rising, compared to the modern day invasion of Ukraine.","Like, obviously, technology is 40 years more advanced and it isn't the Soviets anymore, and it's a limited engagement in Ukraine instead of worldwide total conventional war. 

BUT. 

In Red Storm Rising, the Soviets try to break up NATO by claiming that West Germany carried out terrorist attacks against Soviet citizens, but was found out by US intel. 

In real life, Russia tried to limit European and NATO support by claiming Ukraine was harming people in Donbass, and also that Ukraine attacked first.  This was also thwarted by US intel. 

In Red Storm Rising, the Soviet leaders didn't tell anyone what they were planning and asked for a bunch of different feasability assessments of different things, and the KGB was surprised when a war actually broke out and Soviet leadership was surprised when their ad hoc plan didn't work. 

In real life, Putin asked for feasability assessments but everyone thought he was just threatening to invade, and told him he could take Kyiv in three days.  Reportedly, the FSB is also surprised that he invaded. And the Russian battle plan did not work. 

In RSR, NATO is incredibly sucessful with portable light vvehicle borne anti tank weapons slowing the Russian advance with hit and run tactics, but not as sucessful with tank to tank warfare. 

With the advancement of technology, Ukraine has been incredibly effective with man portable missile systems, and tank on tank warfare practically hasn't happened at all. 

Clancy also predicted the Russian soldier's unwillingness to fight a long war, as well as the Russian people. He predicted Russia sending VDV troops into exposed territory without any meaningful air support (in Iceland) and the fact that they, in reality, are much less disciplined than they let on to be. He predicted that Ukraine would focus on attacking Russian supply lines instead of directly engaging the armor in a pitched face to face battle. He predicted the unexpected, but total failure of Soviet air power to carry out missions during the day (except for the Backfires, which have been absent in Ukraine) so they switched to night time missions instead, which was somewhat equal. Most importantly, he predicted massive logistical issues. 

Interestingly, he predicted the Russian need to make more and more false flag attacks and causus belli reasoning the longer the war went on. 

(Also, incidentally, the first character to die in any Jack Ryan novel is named Putin, the zampolit on the Red October)",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/tazjey/im_absolutely_blown_away_by_how_much_tom_clancy/,2022-03-10 14:11:24,916,8660,books
3h61ej,Possible ASOIAF shout out in Red Seas Under Red Skies?,"I started Scott Lynch's books a little over a year ago and fell in love with them. Locke Lamora is an incredible character and I can't wait to finish the series. 

Through my first read of Red Seas Under Red Skies, I noticed a little quip by one of the other characters, Requin. This is in the beginning of the book when Locke is trying to convince Requin of his skills. I haven't finished this book, nor the third, obviously, but couldn't help but come here to ask of the quip in question.

> *p.91* I suspected that you and your friend were no merchant speculators than I am, but at my tower you may claim to be a duke or a **three-headed dragon** provided you have solid credit.


I might be looking into it too much, and/or obsessed with the ASOIAF series, but had to ask this good community about it. Has this come up before? If so, has Lynch ever confirmed it to be a shout out to GRRM, who established himself as one of the house names in fantasy novel by the first book? Or am I crazy?",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/3h61ej/possible_asoiaf_shout_out_in_red_seas_under_red/,2015-08-16 03:52:02,4,0,books
njfvh8,The chronology of David Peace’s Red Riding Quartet and an attempt to explain this deeply disturbing hallucinatory exploration of 70s England and the Yorkshire Ripper.,"Right, since I didn’t know where else to post this and since there isn’t much in the way of a comprehensive explanation of just what the hell was going on in David Peace’s neo-noir “Red Riding Quartet” I thought I’d attempt to explain the events of the four novels in the series (named: 1974, 1977, 1980 and 1983). Each novel has a new protagonist(s) and each is incredibly bleak and highly disturbing

Now, even after reading the entire series multiple times, it can still be difficult to determine exactly what happened in places. As such, some of this will be speculation and educated guessing.

Disclaimer: Full spoilers. 

Additionally, the subject matter of these books are incredibly dark and unsettling and in capturing the events of the series I have to paint a pretty unhappy picture. I do highly recommend these novels and would advise fans of True Detective or James Elroy to definitely give them a shoot.

Part 1: Burgeoning corruption and depravity in Yorkshire (Roughly mid 1960-1968)

Sometime in the 60’s a group of wealthy, influential and powerful men connected by family and business ties that run deep in Northern England form a ‘True Detective esque’ paedophile ring. One of the ring leaders, a priest by the name of Martin Laws, pimps a young boy (likely his son) named BJ, to several of the other members of the paedophile ring. Those connected or in some way linked to the paedophile ring include: a politician named William Shaw, an architect with an obsession with swans called John Dawson, ‘construction’ magnates and career criminals Paul and Derek Box, the investor Donald Foster and a senior police officer with the surname ‘Piggot’.

From what I can tell, during this time, BJ is psychologically and physically abused by the depraved Reverend Laws. Donald Foster is more concerned with propping up his business interests but does begin a regular affair with the sister (Paula Garland) of a rugby league star (Johnny Kelly) .With his wealth and influence, Foster maintains good relations with Bill Haddon, the head of the *Yorkshire Post,* and Ronald Angus, a high ranking West Yorkshire Police Officer (more on him later). Foster partners with William Shaw and John Dawson to build a high profile shopping centre (named: The Swan Centre). However, due to Shaw and Dawson putting their ‘pleasures before business’ Foster has to go to increasing lengths to cover up the strange activities of the paedophile ring and their associates.

We’ll call this group of wealthy and depraved abusers ‘The Primary’.

Part 2: Escalating Crimes (1968 – 1973)

It’s never entirely established what exactly happens, but sometime in the late 1960’s, an offshoot of the paedophile ring forms (‘The Offshoot’). The Offshoot primarily comprises of employees and ‘blue-collar’ labourers of the powerful men mentioned above. The best guess I have is that Reverend Laws through his practice of ‘exorcising’ people by hammering nails into their skulls and preaching a decidedly satanic gospel brainwashes or drives mad the members of the Offshoot through a series of bizarre and disturbing rituals. Members of the Offshoot are involved with photographing, abducting and murdering young girls. It seems that some members of the Primary are at least aware of the activities of the Offshoot (possibly Donald Foster and John Dawson) but do little to stop it as this would compromise their business interests.

Connected to the Offshoot are: the Marsh family of construction workers (George-father and Leonid-son); Graham Goldthorpe a ‘ratcatcher’; an Unnamed Photographer and his ‘assistant’, Michael John Myshkin (a young, mentally slow boy).

The Offshoot become obsessed with iconography of swans, rats, wolves and dragons. The Marsh family in particular begin constructing an underground lair beneath one of Donald Foster’s construction projects wherein they store photographs and items of clothing stolen from the children they have abducted. George Marsh, assisted by his son Leonid and possibly Reverend Laws, kidnap, rape and torture several young girls between 1968 and 1973. Among those abducted is Jeanette, (the incestuous) daughter of Johnny Kelly Paula Garland.

Two high-ranking members of the West Yorkshire Metropolitan Police (WYMP) namely Bill Moloy and Maurice Jobson begin to suspect a link between the Swan Centre and the missing Jeanette Garland after they bring George Marsh in for questioning and try to beat a confession out of him. Marsh refuses to talk, but as he is a construction worker on a number of Foster’s projects, Jobson is able to place Marsh at the time and place of several abductions.  

Moloy and Jobson confront Foster and Dawson at the Swan centre but a deal is struck (the details are never mentioned so I’ll do my best to infer).

In exchange for looking the other way and not asking awkward questions: Foster, the Box brothers, and William Shaw will enable the police to be the sole distributors/ managers of prostitutes and pornography in Northern England. 

Six high-ranking members of the Manchester and Yorkshire police force are party to the deal (including Jobson and Moloy). This group of officers becomes known as ‘The Yorkshire Six’. In addition, Sergeant Douglas and PC Craven (who are on the payroll of Foster and the Box Brothers) are also involved with The Yorkshire Six. It is implied that the Yorkshire Six don’t have full knowledge of the extent of the depravity of the paedophile ring but are content to ignore the Primary’s activities as long as their money continues to flow. As they set up their pornography operation, the Yorkshire Six use Michael John Myshkin as their photographer and exert control over a number of prostitutes, models, and even female police officers whom they coerce into talking pornographic photos.

Despite the deal struck between the Yorkshire Six and the Primary, Jobson becomes increasingly convinced that George Marsh killed Jeanette Garland but he is prevented from investigating further due to Marsh’s protected status as a ‘Gaffer’ for Foster.

During this time, the North of England Crime Correspondent, sometimes Christian and habitual drunk, Jack Whitehead, works with the Yorkshire Six as a glorified PR journalist. Whitehead also becomes involved with Reverend Laws and his pseudo-satanic preaching’s. 

In late 1973-early 1974, Graham Goldthorpe of the Offshoot murders his sister and blows his own head off with a shotgun. Goldthorpe’s death is investigated by an ambitious journalist named Eddie Dunford but Goldthorpe’s connection to the Offshoot and the broader disappearances remains shrouded in mystery.

Part 3: The Corruption spills over (1974).

In mid-December of 1974, Marsh kidnaps a young girl named Clare Kemplay. Days later, her body is found in a ditch, violated and with swan wings sown into her back. Eddie Dunford, launches an investigation into the murder. Dunford works alongside Jack Whitehead and Bill Haddon but has no knowledge of the Yorkshire Six, the Primary or the web of corruption in Yorkshire.

Unbeknownst to Dunford, in the previous year, the relationship between the criminal Box Brothers and Foster fell apart as Foster attempted to exclude the Box Brothers from the profits of the Swan Centre. Additionally, a psychic medium by the name of Mystic Mandy has obtained information regarding John Dawson’s involvement in the paedophile ring. Since Dawson serves as the architect for the Swan Centre, Foster is eager to keep Dawson’s ‘pleasures’ a secret. 

Jobson, who has maintained a long running affair with Mystic Mandy and who continues to suspect Marsh, tries to covertly aid Dunford’s investigation as the clues point towards Donald Foster and William Shaw.

The Primary begin to take note of Dunford’s activities after Dunford revisits the Ratcathcer (Goldthorpe) murders and discovers pictures of school girls hidden in Goldthorpe’s house. The Primary assassinate one of Dunford’s colleagues, Barry Ganon. Ganon had investigated one of Foster’s previous corrupt construction enterprises and may have been sexually involved with BJ.

As Dunford falls deeper down the rabbit hole, he is contacted by the Box Brothers who intend blackmail Foster and his connections to William Shaw. The Box Brothers present Dunford with evidence of Shaw’s homosexual liaisons with BJ with the hope that Dunford’s investigation will convince Foster to bring the Box Brother’s back onto the back hander payroll.

Michael John Myshkin is arrested and framed for the Clare Kemplay murder by Sergeant Craven and PC Douglas (who are possibly acting on orders from the Box Brothers who wish to use Myshkin’s arrest as a means to put pressure on the Yorkshire Six and Foster).

Dunford refuses to believe Myskin’s guilt and continues his investigation as both his personal and professional life falls apart. Dunford is advised by Whitehead to ‘get out while he can’ but Dunford begins a sexual relationship with Paula Garland and connects the deaths of Clare and Jeannette. During this period Dunford is harassed and beaten by PC Douglas and Sergeant Craven but assisted by Sergeant Robert Fraser (a ‘squeaky clean’ cop).

Things get hard to follow between the 18th and 23rd of December 1974 but here’s my best shot. 

Safe to say, things go very nuts very fast.

Mystic Mandy and Paula Garland are both killed and Dunford is framed for the murders. Dunford is arrested and tortured by the Yorkshire Six but is then released for unknown reasons (possibly to allow the Yorkshire Six to frame him for the upcoming killings of Donald Foster, the Box Brothers and the Dawson family). Dunford races to Foster’s home to extract a clear answer from this mess but arrives too late.

Believing Donald Foster killed Jeanette, Johnny Kelly murders him with a hammer at his home as Dunford watches on. Possibly to avoid being murdered by the Box Brother’s or arrested by the Yorkshire Six, John Dawson and his wife gas themselves.

Distraught over the death of Mystic Mandy and his failure to stop the killing of Jeanette and Clare, Maurice Jobson tracks George Marsh to his underground lair near one of Foster’s construction projects. Jobson brutally assaults, castrates and then fatally wounds Marsh. Marsh is left eyeless and bleeding amid the underground hell-scape of photographs and children’s clothes. Sometime later, Dunford (having pieced some of the conspiracy together) descend into the lair to find Marsh barely alive in the underground horror show. Dunford traps Marshes wife in the underground with her dying husband and then grabs a shotgun from their home after deducing the connections between Marsh, Goldthorpe, the Box Brothers, Foster and Dawson.

On Christmas Eve 1974, Dunford confronts the Box Brothers, BJ, Sergeant Craven and PC Douglas at a pub in Leeds called the ‘Strafford Arms’. Dunford guns down the Box Brother but leaves BJ and the two police officers alive before fleeing and possibly being killed in a high speed chase.

BJ escapes the club with a barmaid named Clare Strarchan as Jobson and Molloy burst into the pub and execute all of the survivors (bar Craven and Douglas) to cover up their own involvement with the Box Brothers and Donald Foster.

Part 4: The Reign of the Yorkshire Six (1975 -1977)

In the aftermath of the Strafford Shootings, Dunford’s involvement is completely covered up and the incident is portrayed as a possible IRA terrorist attack. The only survivors are BJ, Clare Strachan, Craven and Douglas (the latter two fall in line with the lies proposed by the Yorkshire Six). An upstanding detective named Peter Hunter begins investigating the shootings but is unable to make any headway and eventually abandons the case.

The Yorkshire Six, with Jobson now at their head, take centre stage as the criminal forefront of Yorkshire. For several years they pimp out prostitutes and produce porn in a magazine named ‘Spunk’ while continuing to hunt down loose ends from the Strafford shooting and their involvement with the Primary. Cognisant of their connection to the Primary and the abduction of Jeanette and Clare, the Yorkshire Six continue to try and dig up information on who else may have been involved with the Kemplay killing.

Reverend Laws performs more ‘exorcisms’ but continues to maintain his cover as a priest while BJ goes into hiding to avoid being silenced by either Laws or the Yorkshire Six. Notably, Laws is present when Jack Whitehead’s ex-wife is killed by her lover when he hammers a nail into her head on the front lawn of their home. Whitehead witnesses this killing and sinks deeper into alcoholism.

In 1975, the Yorkshire Ripper begins terrorising the North of England by killing prostitutes and young woman. Seeing a twisted golden opportunity, the Yorkshire Six murder several woman who were involved either with their prostitution ring or the Strafford Shootings and frame them as Ripper killings to avoid suspicion. Sometime between 1975 and 1977, Clare Strachan is raped and murdered by a man who is possibly Sergeant Craven.

Part 5: The Long Hot Summer (1977).

The second novels follows Whitehead and Fraser as the Yorkshire Ripper killings begin to hit the mainstream media after the Ripper claims his third victim. Whitehead is a hallucinating alcoholic, tormented by the death of his ex-wife and the lurking Reverend laws while Fraser has married the daughter of Bill Moloy and become sexually involved with a prostitute named Janice Ryan.

Whitehead and Fraser separately investigate the latest Ripper killings and begin to draw a correlation between the killing of Clare Strachan and the magazine Spunk. At the same time, a gang of West Indians known as the Spencer Boys begin robbing post offices, since the police’s efforts are increasingly focused on catching the Ripper, the Spencer Boys encounter little-no resistance to their crime spree.

Fraser becomes increasingly desperate to protect Janice from the Ripper killings and goes off the deep end once Janice disappears. Janice’s body is later found in a wasteland. It is implied that the Yorkshire Six killed her to cover up Janice’s involvement as a ‘model’ for Spunk and the blame for her death is placed at the feet of Fraser and a corrupt officer named Eric Hall. Hall and Fraser blame each other and the Yorkshire Police later classify the murder of Janice Ryan and Clare Strachan as Ripper killings to avoid awkward questions.

Eric Hall threatens to expose the Yorkshire Six when Peter Hunter begins investigating Hall and the Bradford vice-squad for misconduct. Fraser learns that Hall is involved with the Spencer Boys and Whitehead develops a fascination with the holes left in the heads of surviving Ripper victims. Unbeknownst to both Whitehead and Fraser is that BJ is in fact the leader of the Spencer Boys and has been running with the gang to try and escape Reverend Laws.

The Yorkshire Six kill a member of the Spencer Boys and frame Hall for the murder. As revenge, the Spencer Boys kill Hall and then rape his wife.

Fraser learns that his own wife has been cheating on him with his superior officer and that his child is not his. Fraser gasses himself.

Whitehead, suffering from terrible visions of his ex-wife and tormented by the Ripper killings breaks down from the stress and allows Reverend Laws and another man (possibly Leonid Marsh) to hammer a nail into his head.

Peter Hunter’s investigation is called off.

Part 6: The Hours of the Ripper (1977-1980).

Between 1975 and 1980, the real life Yorkshire ripper killed and assaulted over a dozen women in the North of England. In Peace’s novels the Ripper killings occur as they did in our reality, however the names of the victims and the places where the crimes occurred are altered.

After the chaos of the long hot summer, the Yorkshire Six (now down to about to four remaining remembers) wind down the porn operation and continue trying to obliterate any evidence of their involvement in Spunk, the Strafford Shootings, and their dealings with the Primary. 

As the years go on and the bodies pile up, public anger mounts as the Yorkshire Police continually fail to make meaningful headway in the Ripper investigation.

By mid-1980, confidence in the Yorkshire police is at an all-time low. Whitehead, having survived his exorcism is placed in a mental institution where he is ‘cared for’ by Leonid Marsh, son of serial murderer George Marsh and possible right hand man of Reverend Laws. Whitehead now speaks in riddles and occasionally slips into a nonsensical language.

The hysteria surrounding the Ripper investigation is worsened by the delivery of the ‘Wearside Jack’ tape. Similar to our reality, the voice on the tape belongs to a Jordie man who refers to himself as Jack. Unlike our reality, the tape features a ‘second half’ where the Jordie man seems to make reference to the murder and rape of Clare Strachan. The Jordie references aspects of the murder known only to those involved in the investigation (including Strachan’s weight and the amounts of semen found on the scene).

Part 7: Sti Rip il elk Hunter! (1980)

In December of 1980, after the 13th Ripper killing, Peter Hunter is assigned to head up a ‘Super Squad’ which will investigate the failure of the WYMP to catch the Ripper. Hunter selects a Manchester detective, John Murphy to be his right hand man. The ‘Super Squad’ is met with suspicion by the demoralised WYMP. Hunter and his team begin back tracking through the long list of assaults and murders on women in the North of England, inevitably coming across both Janice Ryan and Clare Strachan.

Possibly as retaliation for breaking up his paedophile ring, Reverend Laws uses Eric Hall’s wife to put Hunter on the trail of Spunk and the porn ring run by the Yorkshire Six. Hunter, after a meeting with BJ, makes the connection between Clare Strachan and the Strafford Shootings. Before Hunter can confirm his suspicions, somebody (possibly Leonid Marsh) kills Sergeant Douglas and his daughter. The killer leaves a tape on the scene on which the finger prints of Jack Whitehead are found. The tape chants “Sti rip il elk Hunter!” Hunter finds himself tormented by visions of ‘666’ and ‘swastika’s’ left over the scene of Sergeant Douglas’s murder and begins to visualize himself with swan’s wings sprouting from his back. 

Hunter visits the bedridden Whitehead who speaks in riddles and chants again in the strange language heard on the tape. All this time, the remaining members of the Yorkshire Six work to discredit Hunter and implicate him in a corruption scandal linked to a relative of John Dawson so as to cover-up their own failures in the Ripper investigation.

Suffering from stress, ‘Ripper fever’, and horrific visions, Hunter judgement becomes increasingly impaired. Matters are not helped when, on the 25th of December 1980, the Yorkshire Six burn down Hunter’s Manchester home. Reverend Laws and Leonid Marsh remove Whitehead from the mental institution.

The Yorkshire Ripper is finally apprehended on the 30th of December 1980.

The arrest of Peter Williams (in our reality it was Peter Sutcliffe) brings no relief for Hunter who gets nearer to drawing out the connection between the Strafford Shootings, the Clare Strachan/ Janice Ryan murders and Spunk.

Hunter visits the dilapidated Strafford Arms (now covered with the same swastikas and ‘666s’ found at the scene of the murder of Sergeant Douglas). In the Strafford Hunter discovers the body of PC Craven, his head blown off with a shotgun. Hunter surmises that Craven was coerced into taking the fall for the actions of the Yorkshire Six and was subsequently either murdered or killed himself.

Before Hunter can escape the Strafford, John Murphy (revealed to have been a member of the Yorkshire Six since its inception in the early 70s) arrives with a shotgun and kills Hunter.

Hunter’s investigation fades from public view in the aftermath of the euphoria of the Ripper arrest.

Part 8: Thatcherism and the Endgame (1981-1983)

By 1983, Maurice Jobson is left as the only active member of the Yorkshire Six, Another young girl, Hazel Atkins, is kidnapped by Leonid Marsh and Jobson is forced to confront his past crimes and his failure to prevent the deaths of Clare and Jeanette. The son of the Piggot involved with the Primary, a solicitor named John Piggot, is employed by the family of the imprisoned Michael Myshkin to appeal Myshkin’s conviction.

By retracing the steps of Dunford, Whitehead and Peter Hunter, Piggot gradually discovers his own father’s involvement with the Primary. Meanwhile, BJ, who has managed to survive almost nine years of being hunted by both the Yorkshire Six and Reverend Laws relives the trauma he has suffered.

Piggot eventually finds Hazel dead in a motel room previously used by both Dunford and Fraser in 1974 and 1977 respectively. The police arrest Piggot for the murder but Jobson intervenes. Realising the true horror of what they have both been exposed to and participated in, Jobson directs Piggot to the underground lair used by George Marsh, now inhabited by Leonid Marsh. 

Piggot descends into the lair and kills Leonid Marsh after delivering documents to Myshkin’s mother that will ensure the innocent man’s release. 

BJ discover Reverend Laws’ home, steals a shotgun and fires on police creating a siege. Via telephone, BJ requests Jobson personally. Before Jobson arrives, Reverend Laws enters the house and confronts BJ. BJ viscously stabs Laws with a screwdriver and kills him. Jobson arrives at the scene moments before BJ immolates himself using a can of gasoline.

Jobson finds Jack Whitehead praying with a group of school children in a local church. A young girl holds Jobson hand while he sobs.

Piggot arrives home, writes ‘Three Simple Words’ on a piece of paper and slits his wrists in a bathtub.

End.

Well crickey that took long. 

TL; DR: Very bad things happen to everyone. Most of the characters end up dead, missing or insane and I remember smiling precisely once while reading this series. 

10/10 definitely recommend .Go read it.",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/njfvh8/the_chronology_of_david_peaces_red_riding_quartet/,2021-05-23 20:03:56,75,46,books
