post_id,comment_text,author,created_utc
yl5y3u,"Okay, so I JUST read the books, so this is what happens in the books. The first time Valentine is ever seen in City of Bones(Book 1) is when Hodge summons him after Clary and Jace retrieve The Mortal Cup from Dorothea. Jace was unconscious at the time, so there was no way he could have pointed it out. Valentine then kidnaps him and takes him to Renwick's where he then wakes up and believes he's gotten his father back. Clary shows up, learns the truth, etc. They know that Clary is Valentine's daughter but everyone believes Jace is Michael Wayland's son. Jace thinks Valentine is Michael Wayland as no one present in the Institute during this first story save for Hodge has ever actually seen him. The Lightwoods are over in Idris so they can't help. When Jocelyn was attacked, he only sent demons after her, he did not actually go himself. So he never actually shows his face until the cup is found.",Live-Needleworker-60,2022-12-09 17:25:58
yl5y3u,"Okay sooo in book 2 Jace gets put in the Silent City prison by the Inquisitor and Valentine slaughters all the Silent Brothers and then goes and talks to Jace in his jail cell. He leaves before anyone see them together. Then Jace goes to meet Valentine on his giant ship that's surrounded by demons. The Inquisitor saw this through Jace's magic mirror shard but she couldn't hear what they were discussing. And then after that is the big battle so he interacts with Maya, Simon, Jace and Clary. I'm pretty sure that's really it in book two. 

And then I already mentioned the times he's seen in City of Bones. When he shows up for the Cup, and then at Renwick's when he's having the discussion with Jace and Clary at the dinner table and then when Luke comes in and they fight.",Live-Needleworker-60,2022-12-09 18:47:07
1cjdtg,"I came across Cassandra Claire about 10 years ago when i was reading a lot of Harry Potter fanfic, and i fell in love with her writing. I've tried my hardest to enjoy City of Bones the same way, but it's difficult. I did enjoy the book, and I'll go see the movie, but for me, i think her fan fiction had more depth and well developed story lines and characters (perhaps because half the work is already done in fanfic). I still think she's a tremendously talented young author, and I'm holding out hope that her writing style with her original fiction will someday live up to my high expectations based on her work in her various excellent fanfics.",MysticBunny,2013-04-19 06:30:59
1cjdtg,"Oh geez, I got the two series mixed up. *Clockwork Angel* is the one that is steampunk - *City of Bones* is modern. ",GretchenG,2013-04-19 02:29:19
1cjdtg,"In that case forget City of Bones entirely.  It can be a good fun read, but nothing special.  

For easy read, but still substantial, I'd say Phillip Pullmans His Dark Materials series.  There are three books starting with The Golden Compass.  It's fantasy, but deals with big ideas.  Some people dislike the fact that one of the ideas is religion; so if you're not comfortable with something that could be critical of religion you probably won't like it.  

For something a little more difficult to read I'd say 100 Years of solitude by Gabriel Garcia Marquez.  It's magical surrealism and is among the great modern novels.  The book is about as deep as you can get and you'll find a multitude of themes from family to war to just about anything else.  

If enjoy scary books, or you're looking for something a little less popular, I'd recommend House of Leaves by Mark Z. Danielewski.  Books don't get much deeper than this.  It's filled with hidden meanings, cyphers, and enough weird shit that you can read the book twice, talk to it with a ton of people, and still feel like you must have missed something.  To top it off, his sister is the singer Poe, who you'll be familiar with if you were an angsty teenage girl from the '90s (I kid she's great) and she did a CD that also hints at aspects of the book.  

Those are some of my personal thoughts, and you're free to ignore them, but if you're looking for something deep, Cassandra Claire's books are not for you.  If you're looking for lusty teenage sex, read away, but as for good books that make you think...no, not at all.  ",Soup_Kitchen,2013-04-18 22:48:39
7fwgfh,"I'm not a teen, I'm not a fan of YA books, and I was expecting City of Bones to be a train wreck. But it turned out to be all right so I don't know what you're so angry about.

What YA books are you comparing it to that are so much better?",,2017-11-27 18:34:52
