id,title,selftext,url,created_utc,num_comments,upvotes,subreddit
yl5y3u,Review of City of Bones by Cassandra Clare,"I first read City of Bones when I was fifteen and enjoyed it. Now coming back to it, I like it less, but it's still worth a read. I always classified these books as fantasy soap operas because everything is so damn dramatic. Here we have your typical plot of an 'ordinary' girl--don't worry, she's still pretty--who finds out she's part of an elite race of humans who fight demons. Obviously, she's slightly more special than the other super special humans, called Shadowhunters, but that part comes later.   


City of Bones is fun to read if you're not super nitpicky like I am. I noticed a ridiculous amount of grammatical errors throughout the book and a startling amount of inconsistencies.   
• At the beginning of the book Clary reads a book about faeries, ghosts and demons, and when Luke asks her about it, she says it's her mother's. Later, when Hodge asks Clary if her mom ever educated her about folklore, she says that she hated all of that stuff and wouldn't even let her watch Disney. Um??  
• We're told that witches are human beings who've taught themselves magic and that Warlocks are the offspring of demons and humans, therefore, have magic in their blood, but then later we're told human beings can't do magic at all.   
• Clary is told she's the first mundane to step inside the institute in over a hundred years(later to learn she's not a mundane), and then later Simon is told he's the first mundane to EVER step inside the institute.   


The characters and world-building were the two things I focused on most in this book. For the most part, I found the world-building to be relatively well thought out and interesting. I thought the explanation of faeries being the offspring of angels and demons, werewolves and vampires being the results of demon curses, and warlocks being the offspring of demons and humans was well thought out. I think having warlocks be sterile because their crossbreeds is also an interesting concept to include. But it makes me wonder if werewolves can procreate. They're not cross-bred. They're humans with a disease. If they have a child with another human, will that child be a wolf? Or what if they have a kid with another wolf?   


One thing that infuriates me, though, is that the wolves' fur grows OVER their clothes. How is that even possible? How long is their fur? Also, when Alaric is half-phased, he has clawed feet at one point. Are you telling me his long toenails just burst through his shoes? If you try to tell me his shoes magically fix themselves when he turns back into a human, I will lose my damn mind. Also, Luke is a werewolf...and he wears glasses. Why? He says that the crossbow was his weapon of choice because he had excellent sight and aim, yet.....he wears GLASSES?!  


The self-insert of Clary Fray boggles my mind. It could not be more obvious. I know many authors fall into the trap of writing themselves into the MC but at least choose a name that's not so similar! Clare-Clary? Are you joking?   


Okay, now focusing on characterization. I had a hard time liking many of the characters, in all honesty. Everyone was jealous of one another for some ridiculous reason. Jace is jealous of Simon because he was close to Clary. Simon was jealous of Jace because Clary liked him. Clary was jealous of Isabelle because Simon was paying attention to her even though she didn't even like Simon. Isabelle was jealous of Clary because she's tiny and pretty(and please, just let Isabelle be gay). Alec was jealous of Clary because Jace liked her. Like my god. They all need to get over themselves.   


Clary annoyed the absolute crap out of me 95% of the time. No one in this book knows how to talk to another human being normally. She's asking about everyone's personal life on the first day, like it's any of her business, wanting to know how Jace's dad died. So many of the characters seem to lack any social skills at all. There are so many unnecessary throwaway lines, but at the same time, they gave away some of the big reveals of the book for me. Those throwaway lines also made me believe that Clary is a whole idiot. There's a part where she mentions she's going to turn 16 on Sunday, and later on, Hodge tells the story of how Valentine killed himself and his child in a fire. When she learns that Valentine was married to her mother, if she had only had the idea to ask WHEN all this occurred, she might be able to intuit that Valentine is her father and that she had a brother. Like legit, all she had to do was say, 'yo, Hodge, when did the Uprising happen/my mom disappear?' '16 years ago, Clary, why?' 'oh noooooo, I think Valentine might be my dad.' And then the whole last chapter would be far less dramatic. It’s infuriating that Clary is so nosy, but she never asks the right questions. She’s too busy sniffing around Jace’s sad orphan life and Alec’s gayness to do some investigative work about her mother’s past. If she had listened to Hodge and used her brain, she could have figured out that Valentine was her dad.  


Also like, they ignore what anyone tells them! Hodge *told them* Valentine's bones were found alongside a child's bones and backtracks when he 'hypothetically' talks about him having a son. Like, I see you, you lying sack of shit. Just because Clary doesn't pay attention to anything doesn't mean I don't.   


Clary's jealousy of Isabelle drives me insane. She feels violent anger towards her because she's tall, thin, and beautiful. And any time she flirts with Simon, she gets mad. YOU DON'T EVEN LIKE SIMON, CLARY. Like, relax.   


If there were one thing I would say to Clary, it would be to relax. She is so ready to jump down everyone's throats all the time. When she calls Luke a slimy Downworlder even though he's been basically her dad her whole life. Like she let herself get influenced far too easily.   


I remember being excited that there was a gay character in this, but reading it now, I realize Alec is very much a trope. He's a self-hating gay hiding in the closet, in love with his straight best friend. He could not be more of a trope. I know he gets a happy ending and whatnot but just, ugh. I get tired of seeing these made-up fantasy worlds where everyone is still homophobic. Give me one fantasy world where they don't give a shit, please.   


I'm not fond of Jace much, either. He's egotistical and not in a cute way. He puts Clary in danger by marking her; like I don't care if he suspected she was a Shadowhunter, he still could've potentially killed her if he was wrong. I'm still unclear if marking a human kills them, burns them or turns them into a Forsaken or does all three simultaneously, but Jace deserved that slap.   


Poor friend-zone Simon is my favorite character, more than likely because Robert Sheehan played him in the film adaptation. I still think he and Clary should've just dated from the beginning, but she's an idiot and doesn't deserve his goofy vibes. I don't think Isabelle is a good fit for him either, ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯. I love that he saves the day with Abaddon in the end. Probably my favorite part of the book.   


I like the concept of the seraph blades a lot but wouldn't naming them in the heat of battle be super inconvenient? Some Angels have super long names! Imagine you're fighting a big ole baddie, and you try to name your blade Macroprosopus, but it takes so long to say the word that you get killed. What happens if you call two different blades the same angel name? Can you run out of angel names? Will seraph blades become moot at some point? Also, are they legit just hilts, and a blade grows out of them? Or are they like glass blades that fill with heavenly light when named?  


I'm also curious about the stele. It seems like it is sometimes a universal solvent and other times not. It can heal a broken arm in two seconds but can't cure Greater Demon poison. It can hold a door against pursuit but can't unlock the same door? What exactly are its limits?   


Also, how did Valentine manage to murder Michael Wayland and his son, drag their bodies over to the manor where Jocelyn's parents were and burn them all alive to the point that Jocelyn was already able to see their charred bones by the time she arrived. Judging by the sequence of events, there was not enough time for all that to happen from when Luke found Jocelyn by the river and then got to the house. Unless he like burnt it in advance and was prepping for this.   


I'm curious why Cassandra Clare named Valentine's birds Hugin and Munin when this book has nothing to do with Norse mythology. Like yes, runes are Norse, too, but that's it.   


Okay, last thing to say and then I'm done. It's a weird flex to leave your readers with the knowledge that they were rooting for a brother and sister to be together lmao. Like, I've read the series, so I know they're not actually related, but I'm genuinely curious how that was a selling point. ""then the first book ends with them thinking they're related even though they made out...and the whole second book they'll still think they're related all the way until near the end of the third book! then people won't feel weird for shipping them.""  


Random notes I made while reading.  
\* What is Clave blood?  
\* Jace saying it’s impossible for Dorothea to have a witch mother. Have you never heard of adoption?   
\* “The style of artwork was as familiar to her as her own breath.” Lmao WHAT.  
\* If the Circle were dedicated to killing Downworlders why were Pangborn and Blackwell part of it? I thought Jace said they were warlocks. (nope, they're shadowhunters but it def says they're warlocks in that one chapter)  
\* Love when Brother Jeremiah rides up on his goth af chariot with his smoky goth horses.   
\* The ducking glass mole part tho  
\* Jace thinking that because the Phouka was into Alec he couldn’t also be into Isabelle. Bisexuality exists Jace, gosh. (Maybe that's where Alec gets his biphobia from.)  
\* The whole ‘hello being too girly’ conversation was so stupid I wanted to die.   
\* Why would the warlocks fight with iron at the uprising when they know that faeries are gonna be there…?  
\* There’s one random page where Luke’s glasses are called spectacles three times in a row   
\* Them calling the werewolf alpha the ‘clan leader’ just keeps throwing me OFF, man.   
\* “The stench of death lies heavy on the air.” God, Alaric, you goth-ass bitch.   
\* “I’m all over blood.” WHAT?!!!  
\* Valentine mansplaining the type of knife Clary had.   
\* The image of Valentine laughing and saying, “a true hit!” Has me in TEARS. I’m just thinking of some super ridiculous British guy in a Monty Python film.",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/yl5y3u/review_of_city_of_bones_by_cassandra_clare/,2022-11-03 15:36:20,34,55,books
1cjdtg,Should I read City of Bones?,I like to read books before the movie comes out and I would like to know if City of Bones is worth reading? All suggestions welcome! Thanks!,https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/1cjdtg/should_i_read_city_of_bones/,2013-04-17 15:47:39,26,14,books
4lc1uu,City of bones by Cassandra Clare (review/discussion),"In the first few chapters, I thought that the plot was rather similar to the first part of the first book in the Percy Jackson series. Getting the mother kidnapped and in both books, they were both on the quest in search of a certain item.

Overall, woah! The betrayals! And I was freaking mind blown by the end. I was denial after knowing that they were siblings. Really? I mean that's really awkward and I was shipping them sooooo much. The ship was so smooth sailing and was brutally wrecked in just one sentence. 

Ps: I also found that the author had the tendency to kill her characters as soon as they were introduced? (I might be exaggerating, may be less than 10 pages later). But she managed to make you connect to them and make you feel sorrowful for their death. (Well done) 

All in all, one of the tolerable and well written young adult books I've read so far this month. 
I might be considering starting book 2 soon. 

I would also like to hear your thoughts in he comments below~~ I would love to hear your thoughts about the book and my post. 

Hope they won't wreck the AlecBane ship.#fingerscrossed",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/4lc1uu/city_of_bones_by_cassandra_clare_reviewdiscussion/,2016-05-27 18:14:40,4,3,books
1pst0z,Question about The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones [spoiler],"I just watched the movie based on Mortal Instruments: City of Bones, and was left with a bit of confusion.  I'm really not interested in reading the book, so I am hoping that somebody who HAS read the book can answer it for me.

[spoiler] (/s ""During the course of the movie, Valentine tells both Clary and Jace that he is their father (putting a real 'Luke and Leia' vibe to their budding romance).  It is implied that he might have been lying about being Jace's father, but I don't recall them every clearing that up.  Were they more clear in the book about whether or not Valentine is really Jace's father?"")",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/1pst0z/question_about_the_mortal_instruments_city_of/,2013-11-03 08:11:23,3,5,books
uv5c6,A Review of City of Bones by Cassandra Clare ,,http://niasbookfort.blogspot.co.uk/2012/06/city-of-bones-by-cassandra-clare.html,2012-06-10 22:00:23,1,0,books
7fwgfh,"[spoilers] My review of City of Bones, the most popular YA book without an adaptation yet, or how to become famous today with the least amount of effort","The plot: The mother of the heroine disappears, and she has amnesia while being protected by angelic pretty boys. That’s it. You learn all that in the first tenth of the book. The rest of it is anything you expect to happen in a generic YA novel. Constant sexual teasing, hundreds of pages of infodumps, and little sense of logical continuity.

So you might be asking, why are these books so famous if they have nothing out of the ordinary? Because their opening scene is more vivid and memorable than the average specimen. You see, it all begins with a rave party, where hundreds of teenagers are dancing, kissing, taking drugs, while dressed in trendy clothes and having their hair dyed with all the colors of the rainbow. No police, no adults, a heaven of hormone-crazy youths who want to have fun, indulgence to the max. It’s like the opening scene of the first Blade movie; makes it memorable as a vampire action flick, despite doing nothing out of the ordinary.

And yes, it’s also vital to check every stereotype on the list after that, so the book will be, besides memorable, also easily digestible. The heroine has to be a bland self-insert with a heart of gold, who seems average but is otherwise special. Every male has to be handsome, with a tragic past, and attracted to her. She needs a vague motivation to stick around (find her mom). But must also not spend too much time on that, as it will make the story depressing and that will not work well as a empowerment fantasy. Better treat it as an afterthought and stick to her being constantly amazed by the magical world she is brought into.

The society of the shadow hunters is like playing live action dungeons and dragons; exciting but also scary. And obviously, she needs to be constantly asking what everything does, so the reader can get endless pages of explanatory monologues, interrupted only by snarky remarks and sexual teasing. Your average teen won’t even realize he is reading an almost zero-plot book. Can you imagine how boring it will be if it ever gets adapted into a movie, and all the characters will be doing is talking about magic? It’s like touring through an amusement park that promises excitement, but never gets more thrilling than the haunted house.

Anyways, it’s not like there is no action, but whatever crumbs of it you can find are underwhelming.
- The heroine gets attacked by a lesser demon. She instantly defeats him without knowing how with her super special hidden powers.
- The heroine is chased by werewolves, and easily escapes them when one of her boyfriends gives her a ride on a demonic motorcycle. And then they kiss. (keep that in mind for a WTF moment a bit later)
- Then they face a higher demon who is after the magic cup.

… Oh, right, there was a macguffin they needed to find. So little focus was given on its importance, to the point you forgot about it by the time they went after it. It wasn’t hard to be found, since all they had to do is wait for the heroine to remember where it was hidden and retrieve it. As for the higher demon that seemed like a badass, he was easily defeated with sunlight. Lame!

Over here you see how little thought was put into creating a believable magic system. If the shadow hunters are fighting the demons so they won’t take over the world, why are they using demonic energy to fuel their motorcycles, thus polluting the world with what they are trying to prevent? If the demons are trying to take over the world when they hate sunlight, why don’t they focus on killing the sun so it will instantly make the entire solar system theirs? How do they otherwise plan to retain their control over a planet which is always basked in sunlight?

[SPOILERS]
Everything becomes eye-rolling after that higher demon appears, since the author treats the finale as a Brazilian soap opera, where stuff keeps happening out of left field.
- The demon was possessing someone since the very beginning
- The kissing boyfriend is a traitor
- The big bad teleports next to them (something he could have done whenever he wanted)
- He is revealed to be alive, although everyone considered him dead
- The heroine is his daughter
- The kissing boyfriend is his son
- Yes, that’s right, incest!
[/SPOILERS]

All of the above happen with no foreshadowing, and close to the ending, where they are simply infodumped on you in a long, boring, 100 page monologue where one is talking and the heroine is gasping. You can’t take it seriously, it’s low brow shock factor at best and terrible writing at worst. But then again, what can one expect from modern YA books? They are empowerment fantasies for teens with low standards and eat them up by the dozens. ",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/7fwgfh/spoilers_my_review_of_city_of_bones_the_most/,2017-11-27 16:45:28,13,0,books
1ljam2,The Mortal Instruments: City of Freaking Bones!,"So today I went with my buddy to go see City of Bones. 
From the second I read these books like millions of years ago, (5 years ago) I anticipated a movie. The Mortal Instrument series has SO MUCH POTENTIAL, it’s ridiculous. No, it is not a knock off of Harry Potter or TWILIGHT. The books themselves are fantastic and well written. Cassandra Clare is an extremely talented writer. She was truly one of my top favorites, well until recently of course. 
Cassandra Clare is a complete disgrace. I can’s even begin to comprehend on what was going on in her mind. How can you write something so remarkable, no, how MONEY HUNGRY do you have to be to turn something so desirable into complete SHIT. I don’t even blame the director because Ms. Clare allowed this to happen. I haven’t been this disappointed in a movie since Avatar: The Last Airbender. 
In the beginning I was overly excited about the fact that a series of books that I LOVE were going to be transformed into a cinematic portrait of endless awesomeness. I “fangirled” so hard it was ridiculous. I honestly have never been so excited for a movie in my life. As the cast was released I came across many disappointments from the Fandom. However, I ignored the negativity because I was just too damn excited. Everyone and their mother hated the cast from the beginning.  I can admit I was skeptical at first BUT I managed to let it slide, since Twilight didn’t turn out so bad. ( Yes I am a Twilight fan don’t judge me.) 
Anyways, one fateful day I was at the movies, watching who knows what, and this burst of cinematic perfection is reflected onto the screen. When I saw the trailer for the first time my whole body was overtaken by chills. The room dropped down to 30 degrees and my body went into overdrive as it tried to regulate it self. I did endure a minor spasm attack in my seat due to my anticipation to see this movie. 
I’m not really going to go into details on what was wrong with the movie due to SPOILERS. I do want to point out though, that I did go into the theatre knowing that movies based on a book are merely the directors interpretation of the novel. Maybe I wouldn’t be so mad if Cassandra Clare didn’t help out so much with the movie. She literally allowed this wannabe shit director, Harald (Wart on his face) Zwart to destroy her creation.
This filthy 48 year old adolescent, and this money hungry 40 year old pre-teen managed to destroy one of the best series of books I have ever read. I know it’s an interpretation but these two imbeciles managed to change almost every aspect of the book, wrote a condensed, pathetic excuse for a script, and had it read by a bunch of Kristen Stewarts in black tight clothing with random marks on their bodies. They had the audacity to insert SPOILERS into their own film, I don’t even know what the hell they were thinking. They revealed to two things that could have possibly SAVED the remainder of these pathetic cinematic contraptions they call movies. 
Okay. I will stop here. I don’t wanna get anymore angry than I already am. In conclusion, I do want to point out that I have lost all respect for Ms. CLARE, due to the fact that she has allowed her magnificent work to be seen as a joke, when it could have been so much more. Jace is nothing like Edward, and these books are nothing like TWILIGHT. Rather than trying to jump on the BANDWAGON you could have made something wonderful. SHE obviously has no faith in her writing because she tried to portray it as something it is not. Therefore making it crap. 
I am so disappointed, it makes me sick. ",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/1ljam2/the_mortal_instruments_city_of_freaking_bones/,2013-09-01 20:46:34,0,0,books
rsqee,City of lost bones comes out the day my exam finishes. It’s fate!! Mortal Instruments never fails to make me happy :),,http://sontndt.tumblr.com/post/20462406265/persianpen-city-of-lost-bones-comes-out-the-day,2012-04-04 11:39:49,3,7,books
16nrhdi,Jade City - what an amazing series!,"
I recently finished the Green Bone saga... All 3 books... 10 days ago now I think? But it's still not entirely out of my head. 

Loved the world building and the characters... So real and acting so rationally based on their profiles... 

The world feels so real... And the politics... The way it plays out... The consequences... So real.. 

They need visas to travel to different countries... I've never read a fantasy series that contains so much of our real world in it... Such a well written story... 


I had few minor issues with story like why does the horn take the first fist everywhere with them on the non critical missions? Wouldn't they be doing different important things... Like leading 2 different teams... What if they both die... 

But that's just nitpicking... 

>!Also, no peak seems to always have the shorter end of the stick.. Always it seemed mountain was just a little bit ahead.. But that did payoff at the end.. So that's okay...!<


This was my first 'urban fantasy' series.. So maybe they're all like this one but I don't know about that... 
But someone on Reddit recommended that - I don't remember where that was so... Thanks to that person for the great rec... Enjoyed this a lot!",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/16nrhdi/jade_city_what_an_amazing_series/,2023-09-20 17:41:34,8,16,books
14f4wo,"I just recently finished reading The City of Bones series, and it was just fantastic. I had to stop reading every once in a while, set the book down, take a deep breath, and say, ""What. The. Fuck"" In a good way of course. The link to the website for Cassandra Clare(the author) is in the text.",http://www.cassandraclare.com/books/book-one-city-of-bones/,https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/14f4wo/i_just_recently_finished_reading_the_city_of/,2012-12-07 02:09:55,9,4,books
1f2se5,Another kick ass heroine is Rose Hathaway from Vampire Academy by Richelle Mead. These books are amazing and are soon to follow in the hunger games & City of bones foot steps by becoming a movie as well. Just thought I'd mention her.,,http://www.scifinow.co.uk/top-tens/43124/top-10-kick-ass-heroines-in-books/,2013-05-26 11:21:14,1,0,books
fiqknb,My Thoughts on The Devil In The White City by Erik Larson,"\- So I did a thing. I read The Devil In The White City, and found it to be excellent, as everyone who had recommended the book to me (and there were many), had said. I really loved how so many events occurring before, or during, the Chicago's World Fair Exposition, connected to much big occurrences in early 20th century American history. And this is a conundrum for me, because I would like to discuss some of these happenings, but I feel a great strength of this book is in the reveals, and I would hate to spoil that for those who haven't read it. So, I will attempt to talk about the more general elements of the book I had opinions on.

\- I am surprised, and somewhat saddened, Daniel Burnham is not a more celebrated icon in American History. I confess, rather ashamed, this was the first instance I had read about the supreme architect. Being a salty New Yorker, I read with a smirk on all the obstacles and ridiculousness this man, his artistic partner John Root, and his team, had to endure to erect this phenomenon of manufacturing. And, by the end, I was rooting for a man who had accomplished the impossible. Unbelievable feat that he was able to erect most of the fair in the extremely short window he was given. 

\- I felt Frederick Olmstead was a tragic figure, and was frustrated alongside him at every decision. Mayor Harrison Carter seemed a fantastic man who led one of those unique lives. As did, obviously, Buffalo Bill Cody. His moment with the brave Susan B. Anthony is iconic. There are many figures of history that appear in this snapshot of 1893, and I would encourage anyone to see for themselves what happens to them.

\- Dr. H.H. Holmes. What an incredible fiend and bastard. And, yet, apparently he held extreme powers of pursuasion and possession of the men and women of Chicago, and elsewhere. One of America's most prolific serial killers, Holmes existed in that perfect age, and place, where missing persons were not investigated as fervently as today. The extreme ignorance of his neighbors, his residents, and the Chicago PD was appalling. Larson delved into the gruesome details of his deeds- it is astonishing, sickening, and I absolutely could not put the book down. Bone-chilling, and worth the read for that alone. Christ, this world has harbored some evil men. What is wrong with us?

\- The city of Chicago itself seemed a city transformed. On a side note, I began reading this book during the now suspended NBA season's last All Star game, and there pre-game tribute to Chicago kind of helped set up a flavor for the city. Cool story, right? Industrial-era Chicago was black--black buildings smeared with the stains of industry, black streets caked with macadam and tar, black air filled with smoke and smog. Black deeds made ambitious, young American women vanish. A slaughterhouse of hogs and haunts, Chicago was the dirty younger brother to preeminent New York. The fair changed all of that, as Larson's extensive work shows, and changed the way we see architecture even today. I truly caught a tangible glimpse of the city, its origins, and its culture, and see why it remains a wonder. It became ""The White City"", and was mourned as a revered martyr for arts, beauty, and leisure when it shut down in October 1893. It was looked upon as a transformative, almost spiritual event by those who attended, either common or grandstanding. It's one of those moments in time, I wish I could access through a sort of time machine or otherwise. Magic and Mayhem reigned.

&#x200B;

“I was born with the devil in me,' Holmes wrote. 'I could not help the fact that I was a murderer, no more than the poet can help the inspiration to sing.”

&#x200B;

“No one could bear the idea of the White City lying empty and desolate."" A Cosmopolitan writer said, ""Better to have it vanish suddenly, in a blaze of glory, than fall into gradual disrepair and dilapidation. There is no more melancholy spectacle than a festal hall, the morning after the banquet, when the guests have departed and the lights are extinguished.”",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/fiqknb/my_thoughts_on_the_devil_in_the_white_city_by/,2020-03-14 22:11:40,2,21,books
