post_id,comment_text,author,created_utc
tfuo3c,"I just watched the movie for the first time today, and I guess I had a different interpretation. It seems to me that Laeddis does fully regress, but the line about living a monster or dying a good man is him reflecting on George Noyce having begged for the electric chair as opposed to being institutionalized. Noyce wanted to die a good/sane man, rather than go to Shutter Island to become one of the ""ghosts"".

 It was also mentioned that Laeddis had broken through before, but his lucidity was short lived. He knew if he regressed he'd be lobotimized, so maybe during his previous window of sanity he begged for the chair as opposed to a lobotomy if he did in fact regress, thus dying a good man as opposed to living as a monster (or zombie, as the Dr. put it). Essentially, his alter ego projected his plea for death onto Noyce. He almost recognized he was headed for a fate worse then death, but was still distancing himself from reality.

I guess my theory falls apart if you consider this was the last ditch effort and a lobotomy may not have been on the table during his last window of sanity. Either way, that's where my head went.",Gandyman96,2023-01-19 04:40:49
tfuo3c,"> I'm not sure how people are still discovering and commenting on this months after

I was interested in opinions on the ending… there’s a cool web site called Google and you can type in stuff and it finds old content related to whatever you type…

I put in “shutter island reddit” today and this thread was the fifth link it listed.",epukinsk,2023-01-31 06:45:22
ndpet3,"Didn't even know what that does until I just read this

Also I love shutter Island its my all time favourite book. Read it twice now and seen the movie a few times as well",Klarkasaurus,2021-05-16 17:38:57
lxlmfi,"Shutter Island is one of the few books for me that reached the cliche ""couldn't put it down"" level. It's just one twist after another, and every time you think you know what's going on it changes again.

The movie is a very good adaptation that follows the book closely. The biggest difference from what I remember is that the book featured several flashbacks with Teddy and his wife that aren't in the movie. 

They're different types of stories, but I'd also recommend Mystic River and The Given Day by Lehane.",allmilhouse,2021-03-04 14:50:58
lxlmfi,"Shutter Island was definitely a page-turner for me. I've heard people say that they could spot the twist from a mile away, but I was truly taken by surprise at each twist and turn. I didn't know what to believe right up to the very end!

I think the movie followed the book very closely and even included exact dialogues from the book. However, in my opinion, the movie adaption gives more nuance to the ending. At the end of the book, >!it very much seems like Andrew has regressed back into his Teddy narrative despite his recent breakthrough. Therefore, there is no choice but for him to be lobotomized for his own safety and for that of others.!<

At the end of the movie, however, there's one quote spoken that wasn't included in the book that hints that >!Andrew is only pretending to revert back to his Teddy character in order to willingly receive a lobotomy to free himself of his pain and suffering. !<

I thoroughly enjoyed both the book and the movie adaptation, and would highly recommend it to anyone who loves psychological thrillers!",dlydbd_,2021-03-04 20:37:28
lxlmfi,Shutter Island was a book that got me back into reading. I loved the book and the movie as well. Even though being a huge *DiCaprio* I some how did not watch that movie at release. I was gifted that book and it collected dust on on my shelf for many years. I just wasn't mature enough to or in the right place in my life nor did I want to read books. But I read it before watching the film. I thought they were both excellent in my honest opinion.,Coddy2hottie,2021-03-04 21:48:39
76g3ze,"I think the book shows that Teddy is Andrew more quickly than the film.  Although its been some years now since I read it, I remember thinking that some of the thought processes of ""Teddy"" were oddly slewed and didn't sit comfortably with the character as presented...then of course as he spent time on Shutter Island it seemed obvious why.  A very good and sad book and film.",Oscarmaiajonah,2017-10-15 14:48:21
186zqa,"I read through Shutter Island once and loved it the first time. Trying to read through it again proved to be a complete slog for me, since the suspense was gone after that. I'd recommend borrowing the book from the library rather than purchasing it, and purchasing it later if you find you still enjoy it even with the ending spoiled. ",cyanoacrylate,2013-02-09 23:25:18
186zqa,Fight Club and Secret Window ruined the ending of Shutter Island for me.,BowArrowApple,2013-02-09 17:02:10
