post_id,comment_text,author,created_utc
w1fhdz,"I also recently reread and rewatched the original Carrie movie because it has always been one of my favorite horror stories. First off, I forgot the entire first scene of the movie is just naked teenage girls (and I was showing it to my partner who was like “oh I see why you like this movie” even tho it’s cuz I had a big dumb crush on PJ soles character in her stupid hat and didn’t even remember the naked teenagers). But that scene in itself is absolutely horrifying to imagine yourself in Carrie’s shoes. I think that’s why he wrote it with her not as a main character, because the entire point is to experience the horror as an outsider or a bystander. What is more horrific than seeing evil and doing nothing and living with that guilt? Seeing that evil manifest into something so horribly unimaginable that kills everyone, with much time in between to stop and do something. Carrie is a storm brewing, and it’s almost painful to go through the book reading traumatic experience after traumatic experience, with only small bursts of empathy that, although good-intentioned, really only add to the trauma. It’s more likely that you were peer pressured into bullying an easy target than that you were the target, so in that sense it adds a certain reality to it that makes the reader feel that same guilt. Most of us are a Sue Snell, not a Carrie White. I do think he’s sympathetic to Sue, but I don’t think it’s because he couldn’t write it from Carrie’s perspective, I think he knew it would be much scarier to write from the perspective of the bunch who created the monster rather than from the monster herself.",MetallicCrab,2022-07-17 20:30:04
w1fhdz,"A very interesting take. I can see your point. I would argue that the book is still very much about Carrie, as she's literally the focus of it, but it is a deliberate choice that we do get her POV. I still felt a lot of sympathy for Carrie despite not seeing it all through her eyes, and if you start the book and you don't know how it ends (which is very rare these days) you should be asking yourself why you're not getting her side of the story.

For me, it gives off true crime shows vibes, but in book form (and obviously paranormal). Very few epistolary novels manage to grab me, I can only think of Carrie and Dracula (another example of it being the titular character's story, even without getting his POV). I do think that Carrie is generally one of his less polished works, still great but rough around the edges, which makes sense since it was his debut.",NotSmert,2022-07-17 23:09:47
w1fhdz,"I find it interesting to read from the perspective that it was King's first novel. His style and depth changes as the decades go on, but his first story is a very special one. 

It reads like a horror movie version of Tess of the Durbervilles and I think that's an intentional choice on his part. It's about the assured destruction of a young girl who did nothing to anyone, but was the perfect target for everyone else to use and take advantage of for their own reasons. Sue uses her to feel better about herself by showing pity- not empathy or compassion. Chris uses her as a target for her own rage and hatred for herself, and Tommy also just pitied Carrie and did it for his girlfriend, not to do a nice thing for Carrie. Carries mother uses her as the whipping girl for her own psychosis about Carrie being a product and embodiment of sin. 

Tess murder her abuser and get hanged for it. Carrie murders everyone who hurts her and burns it all down and takes herself in the process.",necriavite,2022-07-18 01:27:15
w1fhdz,"I feel like Sue Snell never felt disgusted or hateful towards Carrie. She just didn't know her or understand her, and like most kids her age, she teased her for that exact reason.  


I think Sue was the best choice to focus on because she's not the victim or the bully: she's the every girl and we can put ourselves in her shoes more easily. She's also the moral center of the story because she has a conscience. It was a really smart move on King's part for his first novel.",,2022-07-18 00:56:34
w1fhdz,"Two things about the book that differ in movies:

1) it’s implied they planned to rig the prom queen vote. I can’t remember, but I think there was some weird discrepancy there. I don’t remember but when I read it there was some sort of plot hole about the votes. 

2) Carrie leaves the school, but then intentionally turns around abd *goes back in* to kill everyone. Book Carrie had a choice and she made the wrong one.",ItsMeTK,2022-07-18 01:12:54
w1fhdz,"Well, it was his first book and I read it before the movie was made as, believe it or not, horror books were nothing as prevalent then as they became later, thanks to King. Books like The Other and The Exorcist were more like exceptions, rather than the rule. 

That said, I think King's special genius was his ability to integrate ordinary things we all experience or see into a horror narrative, making what happens more real somehow. That's what made Carrie (the book) extra-special at the time. My recollection of the Carrie character, however, was that she was ungainly and lumbering, quite different than the Sissy Spacek incarnation. As for Sue, I recall how clever it was for King to have her write the tome ""My Name Is Susan Snell"". That was just so perfect.",,2022-07-17 23:56:04
w1fhdz,"Really enjoying all the comments, and thought I'd throw out my Carrie-related story which is of an entirely different tone, and totally not serious or insightful in any way, but kinda funny for anyone interested.  (If not, scroll on by, it still makes me laugh, though.)

Age 12, in the early 1980s.  I'm staying over at a friend's house and she and I are the only ones awake in the middle of the night.  We've been strictly instructed NOT to watch HBO/scary movies.  My home was so Bible-thumping, I hadn't even *heard* of ""Carrie"" when my friend found it in progress, already leading into the final prom scenes.  She'd heard enough of it to have the gist of the story and filled me in like she knew what was what, and I assumed she'd actually *seen* it. Spoiler: she had not.  

So there were were, in the absolute dead of night, watching the kind of high-tension horror film neither of us was normally even allowed to watch trailers for, neither of us aged past a single decade plus three years.

We made it to the end....except you know that famous jump scare scene at the end, that's kinda lame these days but was one of the very first of its kind?  LOL - yeah...that ended exactly where you think it did.  We TOTALLY got caught, because we screamed like 12-year old girls watching a forbidden horror movie with an unexpected jump scare in the middle of the night.",Tru_Blueyes,2022-07-18 07:07:18
w1fhdz,"I really like Carrie, probably the first adult thriller book that I read as a teenager. I also like the musical (there's a full version on YouTube). It shouldn't work, yet it does",Vickimus1987,2022-07-17 23:16:59
w1fhdz,"I'm always struck by how sympathetic I feel for Carrie's mother when I read the book. What reads as a religious mania on the surface is really a deep seated psychological problem that had gone undiagnosed for decades until its effectively crippled this woman's ability to live and think as a rational human being. The language she uses to express this is religious, but if she had been raised as a secular atheist she would still have the same problems, she would just articulate it differently.",pierzstyx,2022-07-18 05:51:20
w1fhdz,I remember being so sad for Carrie when I read it. She was so abused at home and then at school she really was set up to fail.,Buddhadevine,2022-07-18 09:04:01
w1fhdz,"I love Carrie. And I love love love Carrie white. I’ve always just wanted to hold her. I’ve always identified with her intensely, the first time I read her description I was 12 and in my last year of primary school where I was bullied horrifically, and I cried and cried and cried when I realised I was reading myself through the eyes of my peers. It shattered me. And her whole arc, feels so close. I love her. She’s like a sister to that little bullied version of me. And you’re right, the book isn’t about her. I always felt like this book and the feelings it elicited in me were my own personal ode to my first years in the world. The final chapter was a weird and terrible life preserver. It was when I knew I wanted to help all the carries for own sakes. Idk. I love this as a response to it. I love Carrie white",threelizards,2022-07-18 06:04:47
w1fhdz,"Your comments about Carrie not being the focus of the books reminded me of a Stephen King interview I once read. He said that he sees the book as being about how society creates monster, then goes ""how the fuck did that happen?"" when the monster turns on them.",LemonWetGood1991,2022-07-18 06:19:03
w1fhdz,"My experience of Carrie was that it made me reconsider my own behaviour to others, rather than thinking about how I myself was mistreated.


Before, reading other books about bullied or mistreated characters, I had a tendency to fall into self pity. People were often unkind, straight up cruel to me.

But I was also cruel against others.


Perhaps that's what it is meant to do, to make us accept that we were cruel, and felt forgiven, or often justified, in being cruel? To make us face our own cruelty.",HillInTheDistance,2022-07-18 12:48:51
w1fhdz,"For me its the Kingisms! He writes such an American experience. Such American colloquial language you can really immerse and dissociate when reading his work. Suspend your thoughts to go with the flow. Like his comment on the buckshot vs salt during apple seasons line. Colder than a witches tit. Eatin' dirty. Lol he's got a ton right off the top of my head. 

King seems, too me, deeply like a guy you could have met at a drunken bonfire in the woods, equally, in 1965, 1980, or 2009 taking about the Man, man.

That's the level of nuanced Americana King can evoke. Whether it's a field of wheat where people get lost forever or the amazing portrayal of the South Florida of Duma Key art deco. You just really understand rural and complex suburban American mindsets when reading King. Especially if you get both snow and hot agricultural summer weather in the US, he uses a lot of folk language and he depicts the small town characters. He's a genius in that way, evocative.

He wrote old (insomnia) characters before he aged and also captures a young female experience (Carrie, Firestarter, cell, Dr. Sleep, sleeping beauties) as a 40-60yo man. Love or hate his political views, he's one of the greatest fiction, greatest American, writers of all time",AelinAGalathynius,2022-07-18 07:10:35
w1fhdz,"The movie Carrie scared the heck out of me when I was a kid, and I loved the book.   


I found your initial post and the discussion it brought about immensely thoughtful and interesting to read; so much so that it really redeemed a pretty blah day for me. Thank you.",Sinadia,2022-07-18 01:46:29
w1fhdz,"Carrie is basically Klebold/Harris with telekinesis instead of guns and pipe-bombs (school shootings, or people going ""supernova"" as King called it, used to be a common theme of his before Columbine, eg. Rage, Apt Pupil, even IT). She's not supposed to be good person, but we're supposed to understand why she snapped, and remember people we treated that way. At the end of the day, she's a monster, but one we made.",Urabutbl,2022-07-18 15:21:14
w1fhdz,"sucks that he admitted he didn’t care about the bullied girl he was writing about. I personally loved the book AND ALL movie adaptions. Sissy Spacek, Chloe Grace Moretz. Angela Bettis all knocked it outta the park for me. of course there were things i would’ve changed about each adaption, [like casting that freako ans-l e-gort for one] but yeah haha. Carrie White WHOO!",AdSure2773,2022-07-17 23:34:12
w1fhdz,I read Carrie midway through his other works at the time (circa 1991). Did not know it was heavy on newspaper articles. At first I thought I was being punked and thought someone had rewritten it that way.,tangcameo,2022-07-17 20:12:23
w1fhdz,"I like Stephen King but have never had an interest in reading “Carrie” (it honestly seemed a little boring). This post has completely changed my mind and is now on my list, thank you.",wish_my_wash,2022-07-18 05:54:36
w1fhdz,"It was about motivation and guilt, but it was also about the moral ambiguity of high school. Sue wanted to fit in and went along w the bullying even though she did feel pity. The disgust was a reflection of her own weakness and insecurity, and how Carrie was not equipped to defend herself in even the most basic capacity.
The shotgun quote is just saying the man is cruel and unsympathetic. Instead of loading his shotgun with rock salt to scare or temporarily hurt any trespassers, he loaded buckshot to kill them.",2278AD,2022-07-18 05:25:25
w1fhdz,"When I was a young reader (6th grade) and started reading King, what struck me was that he didn't stick to tropes. Main characters die. People are horrible to each other. People, even protagonists, make mistakes.

I haven't read Carrie since back then (in the 90s), but going from memory... I'd bet one of the things King wanted to say is that revenge is just as wrong as the thing you are avenging. There is no hero in the story of Carrie. Just a bunch of terrible or apathetic people, and the explosion of negativity that inevitably occurs.

People have a weird obsession with cowboy justice, and it bleeds over from fiction to reality and back again. King, I think, wanted to say something about how, when everyone just does whatever they want, nobody comes out a winner.",CttCJim,2022-07-18 13:49:03
w1fhdz,"I mean the book is writen from Sue's perspective because it is ment to be Sue retelling what happened, she's explaining it I believe (it's been a few years since I read it) in a book she had written. 

Ofcourse her memory would paint her as more sympathetic, but her general intentions where mostly pure. To that also Carrie was basically the class ""freak"" she had a hyper religious mother who forced her religion on Carrie, Carrie had no idea about menstruating until her traumatic experience that then turned even worse because of her mother. She was bullied, and shunned by her class. To the point that she snapped.

 You really can only make a monster so sympathetic and that's what King turned Carrie into a monster. I mean even look at now a days when the bullied lash out at their bullies, they are still treated as violent people and not given much sympathy",lostwng,2022-07-18 00:41:20
w1fhdz,"Can someone suggest a book that's like Carrie. Rage, supernatural, grounded story (I mean, we have a social drama here, with a little superpowers)?
Interesting ideas, btw, topic starter have here.",Xomma4ik,2022-07-18 02:21:11
w1fhdz,"I always liked how he went out of his way to make the bullys sympathetic to some degree because he doesn't make any bones about what is going to happen. Carrie will go off like a bomb and a lot of them are going to die. Just who dies specifically he feeds to the reader in bits and pieces, but by the time you get there you have an understanding that these are all just stupid children and you aren't going to be given any catharsis over their fates. They probably would have matured and become better people over time, but now they won't.

It's less horror and more dread. I liked it a lot.",Fantastic_Mr_Smiley,2022-07-18 10:52:47
w1fhdz,"Just like Carrie is about guilt, so Cujo is about fear, the things we fear the most.",NZNoldor,2022-07-18 11:07:18
w1fhdz,"I just want to say, I don’t like horror books or movies, but this whole analysis, here and in the comments, makes me want to read Carrie. So good!!",Catalicammello93,2022-07-17 23:53:15
w1fhdz,The fact Carrie is King's first book is a feat in itself.,,2022-07-18 09:47:28
w1fhdz,"I’ve never thought about it like this in terms of *Carrie*, but I definitely agree with what you are saying.

I had a run in with a coworker over a decade that was the sort of story I only tend to tell when I’ve had a few beers and we have lots of time. It’s a doozy. So often, I’ve thought about how to transform it into fiction whose sole purpose would be to ask whose the real monster: the dude for the incredibly fucked things he did (and would similarly do in my story) or the guy who is willing to cross several ethical and moral boundaries to get revenge for the purported wrongs.

I don’t precisely regret anything I did actually do (my story would sensationalize this aspect and make it far more dramatic and painful), but I do carry a sense of guilt or shame for those actions because at the end of the day, this dude was a victim of a society that had made him disgusted with himself and that fueled his rather disturbing behavior.",Mitch1musPrime,2022-07-18 03:27:25
w1fhdz,"Everything King published until 1989 or so was at its core about Boomers processing their lives. Carrie was the beginning, absolving them of their guilt for how terribly they'd behaved as teens, and each subsequent novel explored a further stage in their development. IT is probably the culmination of this, as it deals with that generation's horror as they realize that their own children are now old enough to get into all of the sex, drugs, and rock & roll the Boomers themselves enjoyed at that age.",destroy_b4_reading,2022-07-18 12:26:17
w1fhdz,"Because its horror. The scariness comes from relating to the victims before they become victims. So if the other characters besides Carrie were set up as pricks, we’d be rooting for Carrie to kill everyone and it would be a twisted catharsis, but not scary.",thalo616,2022-07-18 06:04:10
w1fhdz,"In a way, Carrie to me is like she shark in Jaws. The entire plot is around them, you know its there, they make small cameos of their power throughout and then it culminates in one final scene.",OldMackysBackInTown,2022-07-18 12:32:21
w1fhdz,"You nailed it. We aren't Carrie in this book, we are the protagonist onlooker who dislikes her every bit as much as everyone else does, and that's what makes us the antagonist the story is ultimately about.

I almost loathe his books because they are so innately real, true to form they almost ruin the third person we crawl betwixt the pages to hide from and bring our filthy souls into the sunlight to watch our hides burn.",sonicjesus,2022-07-18 16:27:58
w1fhdz,"When it came to the description of Carrie, I loved how it was a mixture of bad clothing choices, lack of care (overweight, etc.), being just average pretty, shy and not typical ""golden heart child"" that later gets rescued by somebody.

Most bullied characters are practically an average nice girl (clean from acne, slim and the worst thing is either glasses/messy hair) or a pretty tomboy. 

She isn't also this type of the character whose transformation is pushed by somebody and reading how she wanted to take care of herself and then doing by making her own dress, it reminded me a lot of my awkward acne/hair phase. At one point, I just got it so into that my brain filtered any disgusting descriptions and forgot about the ending. It felt like a realistic struggle and seeing characters like Sue and her boyfriend being genuinely nice despite their mindset about Carrie (thinking about her as a cow) was heartwarming. 

Regarding the newspaper bits and whole talk about the incident, it felt like a description of what usually happens when there is a tragedy. Multiple articles, jokes, talks about the law, new phrases that become a part of subculture (I don't like Mondays song, etc). King nailed it.",SarkastiCat,2022-07-18 17:10:16
w1fhdz,"You've missed the point - entirely.  The reason why you're disgusted by Carrie is because King knows how *othering* works and he sometimes cleverly traps his readers in doing so - to the point that they empathise and sympathise with characters who are shitty people purely because they are less other, more accessible, less confronting.

Carrie isn't meant to be easy to like.  She's from an abusive home, she is twisted and complicated and she can kill people.  You're not meant to be able to identify with her, by design.

Oh and Sue Snell is definitely not the true protagonist.  You are.  Carrie is a book designed to confront people with the idea of bullying.",steak4take,2022-07-18 17:20:40
w1fhdz,"I just read Carrie for the first time a week and a half ago. It's my first King novel. I followed it up with Pet Sematary and I'm in the middle of The Shining now.

But anyway, back to Carrie. I think the first thing I noticed was how much less meek she felt in the book than the first movie. I liked that a lot, it made her feel like a real person. I also really liked the various perspectives we get for Black Prom, from survivors to parents, to neighbors, to occult specialists. I wasn't surprised by the nuance and sympathy for the bullies since Carrie's retribution is arguably disproportionate. Yes, bullies are terrible and they absolutely went too far with the pigs blood but towards the end they mention 400 or so people died and only about 70 were at the Prom. At the end she decided to punish the whole town and I believe, if she could have, she would have attempted to punish the whole world.

As for King I think there's a a certain amount of distance keeping him from giving Carrie full sympathy. Whether he was bullied or not he was never a bullied teenage girl. That might have contributed with that disgust you felt as he based her on the unpopular girls he knew and possibly had had mean thoughts about. Maybe he was like Sue, joining in but kind of feeling bad later. Who knows? Anyway I ended up loving it.",Dependent_King_2867,2022-07-19 00:53:29
w1fhdz,"Real quick... Green Apples are amazing off the tree, being shot with rock salt is not fun, but it won't kill you, buckshot (intended for bucks) will. So he's describing someone who has apple trees and doesn't like little 9 year old kids coming and eating his apples enough that he'll shoot to kill rather than just get 'em off the lawn...

As far as analysis of the book... I mean, first thing, keep in mind that he was most likely high and/or hammered most of the time while writing in those days. And I would suggest that he's trying to make us side against Carrie. There was some weird shit people did in the early 80's (like write these kinda' books) and most of it was definitely not socially acceptable. This book is a big ""what if those weirdos could kill you with their mind?"" 

Can you tell by my use of parentheses that I've read all King's books? Most of them twice? I re-read The Stand (extended version) and all 7 (8) Roland Novels during my quarantine.",ProfessorWhat42,2022-07-18 18:13:43
w1fhdz,"Carrie is, ultimately, a villain. 

When faced with what amounts to a mean-spirited prank and an abusive mother, she decides the solution is to use her telepathic abilities to level the town and kill many, many people. Many of them surely had no clue who she even was before she collapsed their house or set them on fire or what have you. 

It was always clear to me that while she was a tragic villain with an understandable reason for being a villain, that's clearly what she was and the ""horror"" of the story is that someone who you'd never suspect of being a dangerous person could unleash horrific violence for what amounted to some moderate harassment.",dethb0y,2022-07-18 03:39:52
w1fhdz,"Righto, off to re-read Carrie...",Cute-Werewolf-4383,2022-07-18 03:59:53
w1fhdz,Pretty sure Carrie is Coke era King all his stuff from then has some weirdness that is absent from his later stuff,DougFunny_81,2022-07-18 10:13:08
w1fhdz,"You also gotta remember King did A LOT of drugs while he was writing. What is it? Pet semetary? He doesn't even remember writing it. I've known plenty of druggies, and it could play into the way he sees the characters in the book.

I haven't read Carrie, but could it be he was putting himself in the characters shoes? His drug addiction and lashing out at those around him at the time being similar to the confusion and sometimes anger of youth development?

It's one of the reasons I like Stephen King, it can almost feel like he walked in his characters shoes, even his bad characters can garner a little sympathy. Granted sometimes drugs will just make you write something ridiculous.",Vikarous,2022-07-18 13:37:57
w1fhdz,"Carrie is an interresting piece of SK's biography, and should be analysed in contrast of (the uncut version!) of The Stand, the book he wanned to write, could write however he wanted, and sit on it for 20 years to do so.

The Stand is unrestricted King, pure christian propaganda, while Carrie was to finaly publish something, so he wrote an anti-christian book out of sheer pressure.

Btw, this is why the modern adaptation of Carrie do not succeed. It is a work about hatred of the religious folk, while the new version focus on Carrie, and sympathy. Carrie is about sex and violence, and that's why the Sissy Spacek one will never be surpassed.",Limp_Theory_5858,2022-08-13 19:15:30
w1fhdz,"From what I've read, Carrie is based on two real girls that Stephen King knew growing up. He, like his classmates, bullied at least one of them.

I could imagine that Snell reflects King's own feelings of regret and guilt over the actions or inactions of his youth.",FictionalFork,2022-07-18 11:43:30
w1fhdz,"Considering when this was written and the fact it was his first of many novels, I take a lot of it with a grain of salt. I've always enjoyed *Carrie* and I liked how no one in this story has ""clean hands"". I like how it intertwines both Carrie's story and the ""research"" and ""reports"" that connect they incident at the Prom. Yes, we should sympathize with Sue, but only because she does evolve in the end, not because she was ""pure"" from the start. We are all guilty of bad decisions and is Sue's case, it was her attempt to fix her mistake that started the ball rolling. 

Now, for those who would rather listen, there is a great version read by none other than Sissy Spacek (the original movie *Carrie*) on Audible (no, it's not a commercial, just a recommendation) available that I listened to a few weeks ago.",UncrnLdy,2022-07-22 01:43:44
w1fhdz,"I read Carrie as a teenager but this post made me get the audiobook so I could listen to it again.

I do not agree about Carrie being written in a way where there is sympathy for her bullies, I don‘t see any of that. I know King said he didn‘t like the character of Carrie but for that he made quite an effort to describe her as dignified, nice, with the potential to popular herself had she just lived in a normal household. The way she was torn between love and hate for her Momma was so real.

I liked the part where people talk about Sue and allege that there is no way I teenager like her would chastise herself for being a bullying teenager. Because it really is like that. Sue tried so hard to atone and she is such a phoney about it. She even got to prove that she was innocent in all of that in front of Carrie. Chris was a POS but she was right in that Sue was no better than the rest of them but all of a sudden decided that she was. I didn‘t like her character at all and am in the camp of those people who read her as a stand in for King himself, trying to make himself feel better about the girls he bullied (without success, I know. It‘s more like Sue did what he wished he would have done).

But my strongest emotions were anger when reading/listening to the testimony snippets. This one woman who lost her daughter that night going „What if there are more like her?“. Well, then you lot better learn how to let people live in piece, god damn. But of course all blame is shifted to Carrie and people act like they had no part in what happened. Then they go on to drown in self-pity.",Laena_V,2022-07-31 10:53:50
w1fhdz,Personally i fucking hate carrie. (Her and the book itself). I fucking hate how miserable someone can be just because they were fed some shit as a child. I hate how she never even attempted to stand up for herself. I hate how no one actually tried helping her. Fuck that book makes me annoyed. Makes me want to hang myself in my garage.,Xecularity,2022-10-05 08:24:29
w1fhdz,"Frankly, I didn't give a damn about Sue. The entire story was super rushed. Sue's character had no depth. From ""years of bullying"" we got one incident. Sue was set up to be likable but I couldn't have cared less about her because I didn't really know her. I would've liked a longer bullying story, how it developed, maybe Sue bullying Carrie at first and slowly starting to defend Carrie, maybe a little friendship between the two of them.
Overall, I was rather disappointed in the novel, King is usually better at setting up characters.",Next_Grape_8340,2023-04-15 02:12:09
w1fhdz,"Exactly. Carrie White could have had money, dressed well and had a nice home. She couldn't change her looks, and her hygiene was probably the result of her awful upbringing and that hurricane brewing in her mind. Kids will find a way to elevate themselves above the ground by pushing you into the muck.",Mike7676,2022-07-18 01:09:04
w1fhdz,It's one of the reasons the more recent film adaptation just bugged the shit outta me - the actor cast as Carrie was beautiful. Just wrong.,preaching-to-pervert,2022-07-18 03:06:44
w1fhdz,"Yes yes yes yes yes!! I love what you said here.

So much of the horror happens way before the supernatural stuff shows up, particularly that first scene. (Side note LOL at your partner’s comment.)

Bystander is such a good word for it.  

This book dives so deep into the experience of being a bystander and living with complicity.

I love that you said most of us are Sue Snells rather than Carrie Whites. 

I spend so much time thinking about the stories we tell ourselves as queer people — or even just the stories we tell ourselves about being an outsider. 

I think we all have different contexts in which we have been a Sue Snell, a Carrie White, or hell, even a Chris. 

But it is so much easier to focus on the times we have been tormented or bullied. When we’ve been Carrie.

Even if we have far more often been a Sue or a Chris.

It seems like remakes of this story make it much more about Carrie — even as a villain, there is sympathy for her as she rises up against her tormenters.

I feel like that type of story is very popular in 2022. 

But the book demands you sit with the times you’ve been a Sue. When you’ve been complicit. 

And it also explores WHY we choose to be complicit. 

Why we sometimes even delight in tormenting and bullying.

That is a much deeper and darker theme than I anticipated from this book. 

I’m really glad that I read it.",NewspaperElegant,2022-07-17 22:39:06
w1fhdz,"great point about most people being the bystanders and not the bullied. however.. i was actually the carrie white of my class back in the day, and i’ve always been averse to reading carrie or seeing the movie bc i assumed it would just open old wounds. what do you think? worth a read for us carrie whites too? or would it be too much",snoogiebee,2022-07-18 02:05:41
w1fhdz,"One thing that I wish an adaptation of *Carrie* would do is play the first half of the movie as a teen *comedy*, with Carrie the butt of many jokes that encourage the audience to laugh at her. Have a good chunk of the film be from Chris' perspective, and portray her as cool and witty like Regina George or Heather Chandler. Sue is still the audience surrogate, but the fact that she's still friends with Chris and part of her clique is emphasized even if she's not in on Chris' plot, with stronger hints that her telling Tommy to take Carrie to the prom may have been self-serving on her part. Have this sense of humor extend all the way to the dumping of the pig blood, with Carrie's reaction portrayed as hysterical in every sense of the word.

Make the audience complicit in Carrie's torment.

Then the other shoe drops. The humor vanishes the moment Carrie gets the *real* party started, and the rest of the movie turns into pure survival horror as Chris, Billy, Sue, and their friends are hunted across town by a very pissed-off girl with superpowers. Now the audience is going ""oh, *shit*, am I more like Chris and Sue than I care to admit? Would Carrie come after *me?*""

And just to really ratchet up that sense that the audience isn't safe and make 'em squirm in their seats, have Chris livestream Carrie's humiliation, a subplot that ends with the revelation that Carrie has a power she didn't have in prior versions. Namely, she can telepathically project her will through radio/TV broadcasts and the internet -- which allows her to merk people watching the livestream from all over the world. Sydney, Bangkok, Bengaluru, Winnipeg, Denver, New York, Monterrey, Hamburg, Helsinki. And as she does it, have her stare right into the camera streaming the carnage, like she's staring at *you*, the audience member who'd just spent an hour laughing at her misery. (Also, she uses this power at one point to track down the main characters, killing one of them before the rest get the hint to smash their phones. Oh, you thought you were safe behind your little screen spouting off online?)

And at the end, in the final confrontation between Carrie and Sue after everyone else is dead, have Carrie kill Sue, telling her explicitly how, even though she may regret it now, she is still complicit in ruining Carrie's life long before the pig blood prank, having been too much of a moral coward to stand up and say ""no"" to any of it.",KevinR1990,2022-07-18 03:26:14
w1fhdz,"Wow, I love this comment and now I want to read Tess of the DUbervilles, I bet it’s fascinating to look at it through that angle. 

I agree that it is interesting to think of this book as his first novel: I might be overly projecting, but I feel like anytime he is writing about anything magical or supernatural that a character can do, there is some “sort of about writing “element of it. The way that Carrie describes playing with her power, it’s impact on her body, the erraticness of it. I don’t know. I was like yeah that sounds like writing on coke to me. 

Though a friend told me he wasn’t on cocaine when he wrote this book, so the frenetic intense energy of it is just… Stephen King being Stephen King. Wild",NewspaperElegant,2022-07-18 03:22:06
w1fhdz,"Yes! I don’t know because I have not yet watched any of the movies in full, (though I’m definitely going to do it now!) but I have a suspicion that the book makes the whole prom king and queen set up fairly sympathetic compared to the movies. There’s a scene in which Carrie and the boy? Paul? Wow I’ve already forgotten his name lol. Talk about why they would be voted in, and though it’s implied that Chris did some weird mean girl machinations, there is a possibility that it might’ve happened just because people like Paul, feel bad about being mean to Carrie, and don’t like any of the other people who are running lol. My understanding is that it is far more black-and-white in most movie versions.

And the timeline about her leaving and coming back has always been confusing to me, so this helps to know it is different in the movies lol",NewspaperElegant,2022-07-18 03:18:22
w1fhdz,"Shout out for mentioning The Other. Read that as a teenager, and oh boy did that scare the bejeebers out of me.

Carrie was the first horror movie I was in the theater - by myself! When that last scene hit - I really experienced my first true shock of horror, and I will never forgot that moment in my life (it was 40+ years ago).",ILLforlife,2022-07-18 00:16:45
w1fhdz,"Interesting! Honestly, I take him at his word — he tried very hard to get inside the mind of Carrie White, but never felt like he wholly succeeded, even when he had some empathy for her. 

Just like Sue Snell.",NewspaperElegant,2022-07-17 22:55:21
w1fhdz,"This is so funny, I totally feel you. 

This also threw me, even though he has so many epistolary elements in his other books.

I guess I’m just so used to thinking of Carrie as just the last scene of the Sissy Spacek movie that everything else felt like “...wait what”",NewspaperElegant,2022-07-17 22:19:23
w1fhdz,"It wasn't supposed to be a happy ending, per se.  It's insinuated that Sue's baby (a girl) will have the same powers as Carrie did, and she could well turn out the same way.  And even if Sue were to be the perfect mother, she can't entirely control how the girl's future classmates might treat her.

The original ending was supposed to be a phantom Carrie overlaying on her grave and holding Sue's baby, to support the idea that Sue's baby has this threat looming over her.",mirrorspirit,2022-07-17 22:32:53
w1fhdz,"This is really smart.— I felt like Carrie had quite off supernatural elements, but I couldn’t articulate why they felt off. Though I did like how simplistic his writing was in the “magic” parts.
I didn’t know this about the most recent movie and I am upset. I remember reading a eview and being really opposed to some of the reworking of it, sounds like they were not really thinking about it.

I’m thinking about reading firestarter next.

 Apparently Anne Rice used to read it every time she had writers block.",NewspaperElegant,2022-07-17 22:22:29
w1fhdz,Maybe they wanted to set up a sequel where the baby psychically inherited Carrie's powers.,Hurdy_Gurdy_Man_42,2022-07-18 07:34:28
w1fhdz,"Yes! Do it! I am not much of a horror fan either, but I read misery last year in a very dark moment of my life, and I loved it, even the parts that I thought were mediocre to bad. 

It made me curious about the rest of his stuff and if you like a mean girls type story, I think it’s very fun to read Carrie with that genre in mind.",NewspaperElegant,2022-07-18 00:35:12
w1fhdz,Same thing happened to me I watched Kubrick’s version of The Shining without knowing the book a few years later I saw the book at a bookstore and bought it and read it. Went from liking Kubrick’s version to like okay completely different from the book . As far as Carrie it wasn’t one of my favorite Stephen King books but still respect what he was trying to tell,Ornery_Gene7682,2022-07-17 22:42:04
w1fhdz,"Could be! There’s certainly quite a lot of misunderstanding in Carrie around the prom — she understands the whole thing to be a set up, when it’s really two people, both of whom have their own reasons far beyond carry that it escalates the way it does.

I think  that Sue’s guilt, Sue’s complicity, and Sue’s denial of her own motivations, particularly at the end when Carrie psychic attacks her, is far far more interesting, particularly because king seems to weigh it with the same measure as he does Carrie’s blowing up of the town.",NewspaperElegant,2022-07-18 03:48:10
w1fhdz,"*Carrie* was published in 1974, four years before King started on cocaine.",HugoNebula,2022-07-18 11:30:04
w1fhdz,"This is interesting and I don’t disagree. 

As a trans person who really enjoys king’s work, I think that it’s really meaningful to understand how and why his books resonate. 

It is interesting and meaningful to me both as a person and as a writer to see how he explores the darkness of humanity as an older white dude — what resonates and what doesn’t resonate. The racism and misogyny in some of his work is eye roll inducing to me. 

But part of why I was so into Carrie is because I think his imaginings of what teenage girls are like to each is quite on point in spite of what you pointed.

 I think that’s neat, and it’s interesting to think about why that is.",NewspaperElegant,2022-07-18 17:12:05
w1fhdz,"You think so? I felt completely the opposite reading Carrie. Carrie, as I read above, he doesn’t sympathize with, but I think he makes a pretty valiant effort and there’s something to be said about making the main focus of your first book character that you don’t particularly like.

That said, I think he deeply deeply sympathizes with Sue Snell, and she seems like one of his most interesting and dynamic characters regardless of gender.",NewspaperElegant,2022-07-18 00:26:07
w1fhdz,"Op, have you read ""On Writing"" by Stephen King? In that book, he explains the story behind Carrie and why it is so different from his other books. I find it very touching.

King was very poor. He was married with a newborn. He was a high school English teacher but back then they didn't get paiduch. So, he got a part time during the summer time as a maintenance guy. 

One time he and other maintenance guy had to fix something in the girls locker room and he felt so giddish like a little boy sneaking in the girls locker room. While he was there, he saw some tampon holders on the wall and he didn't know what they were for. The other guy told him and that's how he got the idea to write Carrie.

That's the first story he sold. He didn't know he would get paid so much. Finally he could take care of his family and became a full time writer.

Now, when I read Carrie, I feel like I am reading his first ""baby"", the pain and preserverance behind it.",StrongTxWoman,2022-07-18 14:42:14
w1fhdz,"Not just specific to Carrie, but the scary part about a Steven King novel is riding along in a character's head as they make increasingly bad decisions.

You know enough (and often so does the character) to realize it's a bad choice. Then they talk themselves into it, and you are stuck as a passenger in the nightmare that follows.",MrDerpGently,2022-07-18 05:12:32
w1fhdz,"I love what you’ve said about queer perspective. Actually to add to that I think King does often write from a queer perspective but from his other writings in other books it’s hard to say that he really grasps it, I think sometimes he just stumbles upon a goldmine of like he did with Carrie. If we’re thinking from a queer perspective, and to elaborate more on Carries and Sues, you could say Carrie is that initial alienation and isolation. Whereas Sue is the part of you that’s trying to fit in, trying to be one with your tribe. And that isolated part of you destroys you in a way, it magnifies everything you feel that’s wrong with you and for many of us it causes us to lash out. Maybe not exactly that, but something like that. Or the climax, where you finally come out of your shell and try to be who you are and something terrible comes of it and you literally self destruct. I feel like I could mill through this idea for a while and come up with a lot of solid queer allegory from this, which is all the more reason this is one of my favorite stories and this is suddenly making a lot of sense to me.",MetallicCrab,2022-07-17 23:00:01
w1fhdz,"I was a Carrie and I really enjoyed the book (more than the movies). King does this really interesting thing where the narrative is periodically interrupted by other media from after the incident—memoirs, scientific journals about telekinesis citing “the Carrie White incident,” witnesses being interrogated by the government, etc. I found it very interesting how the novel never lets you forget where the story is going and very sad how the story is as much defined by other people’s experiences or (sometimes uninformed) opinions as it is by who Carrie actually was. Once she’s gone, she can’t drive her own narrative. It can definitely be a painful read but I found a certain amount of catharsis in safely putting myself into that powerless feeling. 

The movies, as mentioned by OP, is much more focused on Carrie. You see only the main plot from the book and it feels tragic. I actually enjoy the Sissy Spacek movie quite a bit but I think it loses some of its depth in the adaptation",,2022-07-18 02:43:51
w1fhdz,I was a Carrie when I first read the book and it was immensely helpful to me. It made me realize I was not alone and others did actually see what was happening. And it made me realize that having all that rage inside me would eventually make me implode.,annarchy8,2022-07-18 03:53:49
w1fhdz,"I consider it to be too much. The narrative does not show any ANY sympathy to Carrie. For the most part, the prose and narration inform the reader of how gross she is and in some ways, how she deserves what's happening to her. There's a lot of abuse and a lot bullying that isn't necessarily described as *good* but the connotation isn't as black and white as one would hope.",garbagecatstreetband,2022-07-18 02:35:56
w1fhdz,"Carrie was his first novel so it’s likely that he wrote all of it when he was still a teacher. No one could have known how popular it’d become, let alone how quickly!",,2022-07-18 02:48:48
w1fhdz,">Then the other shoe drops. The humor vanishes the moment Carrie gets the real party started, and the rest of the movie turns into pure survival horror as Chris, Billy, Sue, and their friends are hunted across town by a very pissed-off girl with superpowers. Now the audience is going ""oh, shit, am I more like Chris and Sue than I care to admit? Would Carrie come after me?""


You would REALLY like American History X.

Edit /u/demonicmonkeys check out American History X",CactusJ,2022-07-18 05:37:10
w1fhdz,"The song when Carrie finally goes off is very fitting and terrifying in its own unique way compared to more visually descriptive depiction from movie and book.

“God has seen you’re sinning 

Just beginning

Pray for your salvation From Damnation

Pray or He will burn you

He will burn you”",TiredCoffeeTime,2022-07-18 04:29:46
w1fhdz,"Yeah, I guess that’s true of any older literature, and Carrie is like what, 40 or 50 years old now?",,2022-07-18 04:31:00
w1fhdz,"If she was younger, Beanie Fieldstein could do a pretty book accurate Carrie. Sissy had the angle of the weird mousy religious girl, not the smelly dumpy potato everyone shit on in the book.",droidtron,2022-07-18 02:52:46
w1fhdz,"Please do! the original 1976 Carrie is one of those you NEED to see before you die movies. the 2013 remake with CGM gets shit on A LOT because for one yeah it’s a remake, there’s CGI and just people wanna shit on horror remakes even if they’re good. maybe i’m bias on the newer one because i really do love Chloe Grace Moretz haha. i thought she did great. Julianne Moore plays Margaret White. it’s a decent remake. like i said before though, only thing i’d change is removing that weirdo ans-l e-gort from it. he can’t act and it’s apparent. if you do end up watching Carrie, please return to this thread and let me know what you thought. an honest opinion / review.",AdSure2773,2022-07-18 00:39:54
w1fhdz,"In the book there were multiple people with such abilities, but those growing up in stable, loving homes didn't have a tendency to fall into the violent trance.   


The adaptations miss many subtle things- like in book Carrie people didn't laught at Carrie at the prom, she didn't snap but left the gym and after a while came back to extract her revenge, that was deliberate action (she spared those who showed her some compassion) not mindless rampage.",Eireika,2022-07-18 15:16:14
w1fhdz,"Hell will freeze before people will cast an overweight actor for a leading role (Carrie is described as chubby/overweight). I still liked that adaptation somewhat because they did make her at least look plain. Although, I think most of that actually was Spacek herself carrying herself that way. I remember the scene where a teacher tries to talk to her and Carrie sits in a way that her limp hair falls over her face… that kinda thing.",Laena_V,2022-07-18 09:15:50
w1fhdz,"Ugh! I love what you wrote here and if you ever wanna talk about this, I think about it all the time lol.  two things  you hit on really well here:

1. The idea that he writes from a Queer perspective and that he just sort of stumbled into the story than resonates as a queer one. I completely agree, I feel like part of the reason this book is so good is because he doesn’t really care at all if he is writing teen girls in the “right “way, and as a result their dynamics are so emotionally true. which in turn is very queer.

2. The idea of having the sort of outsider destructive piece and a more “Sue” piece that is trying to fit in is so interesting to me.  I think so much Queer fiction tends to focus on that Carrie  white outsider bit, to the point where sometimes I wonder if we’ve all forgotten that we are all part of in groups somewhere… :)",NewspaperElegant,2022-07-17 23:17:09
w1fhdz,It isn’t the queer perspective. It isn’t particular to that sexuality. Most of the things Carrie and her tormentors feel reside in all people at some point in time. Readers may associate with it because they are queer but they may also associate with it just because they are human.,TheMadIrishman327,2022-07-18 04:03:17
w1fhdz,"thank you for the reply :) i’m reading salem’s lot now, and i hadn’t realized it was king’s second ever novel. i thought, maybe i’ll do a book club of one and read all his novels in order as sort of a project. it turns out carrie was his first, which i also didn’t know! and i got nervous because i’m just not sure about it. i think it’s mastery may be lost on me. perhaps someday. maybe i’ll read it last. that’ll give me… oh idk, a decade or two to prepare? 😂",snoogiebee,2022-07-18 02:44:35
w1fhdz,According to King in On Writing both were dead by the time Carrie was published. He had tremendous guilt in how he also contributed to their bullying. So the guilt element of Sue Snell from /u/newspaperelegant is on the ball.,,2022-07-19 01:55:24
w1fhdz,"I'll butt in here and say definitely go for Firestarter! Its been many years since I read it, but I remember thoroughly enjoying it. It's a thriller but not as chilling as Carrie, if I remember correctly. Cujo and Pet Semetary, however, scared the beejees right out of me. Approach those two armed with some fluffy books to read as chasers directly after. Then, if you're looking for more of his work, my very favorite King book is The Green Mile, and my next less-scary fave would be 11-22-63. Beautiful detail in both of those!",mistress_of_none,2022-07-18 01:18:33
w1fhdz,"The Shining was my favorite Stephen King book

The other books I read were:
It
misery 
Carrie",Ornery_Gene7682,2022-07-17 23:03:46
w1fhdz,"I hate every character in that series and they all remind me of me in an uncomfortable way I don't think any of my friends would ever point out. 

Like, part of me is Carrie, part of me is the people who antagonize Carrie, and I don't like either of those people.",sonicjesus,2022-07-21 02:13:07
w1fhdz,"I remember seeing ads for that movie when it came out ten years ago and I was so annoyed and to this day have no interested in watching that movie. Even when you look at the cover you already have the actress having this classic pout/half open mouth thing going on - Carrie didn’t know what a period was ffs, she wasn’t going around with a seductive look on her face!",Laena_V,2022-07-18 09:38:23
w1fhdz,Completely! That was some thing I noticed about Carrie as well. There’s so much that he describes happening internally.,NewspaperElegant,2022-07-18 09:23:13
w1fhdz,"I think they're on the same page as you, yes, Carrie does not need to be read as a queer novel, but they're saying that it *could* be read as one, as it still gives interesting insights.

It's an interesting exercise to look at books through different lenses to see if there's anything new there. Does *Count of Monte Christo* say anything interesting if viewed with a modern feminist lens? Maybe, maybe not, but either way no one is saying it was written as that type of book. Borges explains it quite well (in an incredibly roundabout way) in his short story ""Pierre Menard, Author of Don Quixote""



(Mercedes is interesting in her rejection of Dantes and guy-gets-the-girl narratives, and has imo a surprising amount of agency compared to the person he does end up with, but I don't think there's anything coherent that Dumas is really saying, intentionally or not, about women's role in society)",egbertian413,2022-07-18 05:11:17
w1fhdz,"Hah! Honestly, I think if you’re planning on reading King in general, which is awesome and please talk to me about it as you do? Just kind of keep trucking along. Someone said in a different point in this thread that King has a habit of demanding that the reader sympathize with people doing terrible things. 

I think that is truly meaningful and interesting as a person who has had my own Carrie White experiences, honestly BECAUSE of those experiences. But I will also say mine feel low key compared to the experiences many of my friends are still dealing with today. That said, all of our mileage varies!",NewspaperElegant,2022-07-18 03:04:28
w1fhdz,"And I'm sure the mom would say something about a seductive look is how the devil gets in. I watched the old Carrie,  but didn't watch the newer one for the same reason. It's one of the few that I've watched because I realize King books don't translate to movies.  His books are heavy on internal dialogue and personal psychological horror, which can't really make the move to the screen very well.",Zeroharas,2022-07-18 13:00:49
w1fhdz,"I think this is when King is at his best. It's almost like the actual 'event' is just a side issue and its the reaction of the characters that is the true horror, showing the dark places that we all have in us, whether it's Carrie, Needful Things, Under the Dome or The Mist the terrifying thing is how easily ordinary people can make bad decisions and the spiral that this creates.",jkhaynes147,2022-07-18 07:33:02
w1fhdz,"thank you so much for the insight and responses. ive read a handful of his books and really enjoy them, i am a fan of his storytelling- i enjoy the pace, the way he uses words and they way he is able to give feeling to places you’ve never been. i suppose that makes his books feel very real to me, hence the hesitation around carrie particularly. i have to say tho all of this discussion has now made me curious of my own reaction! i just had a book come off hold, but i expect i wont be able to move on now without at least giving it a try. i shall update as i get on with it!",snoogiebee,2022-07-19 00:06:25
w1fhdz,"I'll second r/mistress_of_none that you should read Firestarter.  It's almost the antithesis of Carrie.  Where Carrie is buried by lack of agency and constant undermining until she destroys everything, including herself, Charlie has the foundation of self-confidence that comes from having a supportive and loving parental figure - and that self-confidence gives her the control to wield her power with deliberation.  Carrie is self-hatred turned in on itself; Charlie is self-love that destroys outside threats.

Firestarter and The Dead Zone are the King books I always recommend.",xelle24,2022-07-18 03:57:58
w1fhdz,He did but prior to Carrie he had only published short stories in magazines,,2022-07-18 09:55:06
w1fhdz,"i’ve always been irritated by his casual misogyny and never read Carrie, so this whole thread is really interesting. does he do his usual thing of describing every female character breasts-first?",fakeprewarbook,2022-07-18 19:58:36
w1fhdz,"Honestly, I never did until reading this post and the comments, either!  It makes you wonder if King, deliberately or unconsciously, decided to write a female character that was the opposite of Carrie.",xelle24,2022-07-18 12:10:50
w1fhdz,"It really does! I feel like he usually writes his lead female characters in an admirable light; I usually think of them as ""spunky"" but in a feminine kind of way. It's interesting to hear that he didn't like Carrie since I don't feel like she fits into this trend.",mistress_of_none,2022-07-18 12:16:10
zv1c3n,"It’s possible that Margaret was hallucinating when she said that,since she remembered trying to murder Carrie soon after she was born and first used her powers.Then she claimed Ralph prevented her from doing so,but that wouldn’t be possible since Ralph died in a construction accident",animejunkie84,2022-12-26 03:27:32
zv1c3n,"I found this error, too. Cue me flipping back through the whole book to double check I remembered when he died correctly.  It's just an error.  Carrie was King's first novel and those were his wilder days, so it's just a mistake.",smushy_face,2022-12-25 22:56:49
zv1c3n,"I always assumed that Carrie’s mam was either abused or a bit of a slut and didn’t know who the dad was ….and this is why she was a religious nut when Carrie was growing up because she was trying to wash her own sins away

Was years ago when I read Carrie (actually first King book I read) but I probably took everything about Carrie’s dad with a pinch of salt.",NefariousnessOne1859,2022-12-26 09:16:24
zv1c3n,"Possible that Margaret, who is a religious fanatic who abuses her daughter, is an unreliable narrator who lied about Carrie’s father dying. Also possible that, since this is Stephen King’s first book, he was still getting used to both writing and writing on cocaine.",That-Requirement-285,2022-12-26 09:11:42
zv1c3n,"Good catch OP. I had the immediate suspicion that other’s have voiced that this was King’s drunk/coked up years. 

But who knows, he writes about the supernatural, and it would be like something from the Dark Tower for the ghost of her father to come back and protect Carrie. Or, maybe Carrie was kind of crazy and misremembered something? 

Finally, didn’t Carrie have a lot of different perspectives on the incident? It could be that someone perceived something incorrectly, but it was forever ago that I read Carrie and am not confident in that.",gonzagylot00,2022-12-26 03:15:06
zv1c3n,Carrie was his debut novel. I don’t think he was coked up during that time,BreathingCorpse252,2022-12-25 18:02:14
zv1c3n,"Really good.  Carrie's rampage was a lot wider than the school.  The Chloe Moretz movie was supposed to show that too, but they limited it one road and a gas station.

The book tells about the rampage unfolding much like you would read about a disaster happening.  

Although SK almost threw it out because he didn't think he could relate to telling the story through a teenage girl's eyes, but his wife persuaded him to keep going with it.",mirrorspirit,2022-12-26 03:43:14
zv1c3n,"King didn't use cocaine until the writing of *The Stand*, and had been writing short fiction for fourteen years by the time *Carrie* was published, seven or eight of them professionally published.",HugoNebula,2022-12-26 10:40:41
zv1c3n,"That was the movie, or rather the sequel of the movie to explain how Carrie ended up having a half sister.

Book isn't connected to that.  At the end they show evidence of another telekinetic girl, but there's no stated familial link between her and Carrie.",mirrorspirit,2022-12-26 03:39:08
zv1c3n,"*Carrie* was Stephen King's first published novel, written when he was living in a trailer in Hermon, Maine (aka ""the armpit of Maine"") with his wife Tabitha and two children, and teaching English at Hampden Academy. He was already an alcoholic when he wrote it, but he didn't get introduced to cocaine until a few years later, when he started attending Hollywood parties.",jellyrollo,2022-12-25 21:58:30
zv1c3n,Hit Girl was in a Carrie movie? Awesome,ablackcloudupahead,2022-12-26 07:03:58
10o2e4b,"Carrie Soto is nothing but page after page of far too much info about imaginary tennis games in an imaginary diverse world of tennis, played by an imaginary antisocial Latina (as imagined by a white woman) who refuses to mature beyond 13 yo. Every chapter that an actual tennis match is played, identified by a “Her vs Other Her” chapter title, can be skipped, just read to last paragraph. The rest is filler, as this entire book seems to be, fulfilling a contract.",,2023-03-14 14:25:46
10o2e4b,"The major one was all the practice matches between Carrie and Bowe, which required a big suspension of disbelief.  Top level WTA and ATP tour players are not evenly matched, no matter how good the woman is.  Carrie would eat a bagel every set.  And there is no way they would be playing 5 setters for practice.

The service speeds she described also required a suspension of disbelief, they were exaggerated by about 10 mph over what was actually happening at that time in tennis, and Nicki's record of 132 would be 4 mph faster than Serena's 2013 record set with more modern racquet tech.

They also talk about the men playing 5 set match es at Indian Wells.  5 sets happens only at majors. 

There were a few other small things but those were the ones I remember.",JoeDwarf,2023-02-23 19:22:48
10o2e4b,"Oh yes, the matches between Carrie and Bowe had me in disbelief too. And also the entire premise of Carrie coming out of retirement at 37 and winning a Grand Slam - like ??? Did TJR not see what happened with Serena? (Yes, I know she wrote the book before Serena's attempted comeback but still.)

Ah I didn't notice the 5 sets at Indian Wells and I don't know about serving speed records. TJR definitely did her research but she could have done more.",sailingg,2023-02-23 21:20:12
10o2e4b,"They’re not historical fiction books like Evelyn Hugo or Carrie Soto, they’re more classified as romances but they’re more profound and realistic than contemporary romance novels that are currently being marketed",scottishfoldwannabe,2023-01-29 17:02:54
10o2e4b,"Adding on here, TJR’s treatment of tennis was borderline lazy at points. The practice sets with Bowe and Carrie were laughable. As was Carrie doing as well as she did, especially considering this was the 90s with far inferior sport science. 

But even worse were the blatant inaccuracies in rules and common tennis knowledge. I’m fairly certain TJR mixes up deuce and ad sides (suggesting she doesn’t understand scoring) during one of Bowe and Carrie’s practice matches. She also on multiple occasions says the players take serves “out of the air” and the serve is deep and pinned the receiver behind the baseline. Does she not understand that serves must bounce and land in the service box? Her description of play styles suited to clay also makes very little sense (claims it’s for power players and that the ball moves quicker, or something egregious to that degree). It may be a misunderstanding but the verbiage she uses needs some mental gymnastics to be accurate",TornadoBob542,2023-09-21 22:46:44
36uv7a,"Carrie is his first book so he's written a lot of different kinds of stories since then. 


And it's really more scifi than horror (like Firestarter). 


My recommendations depend on what you like.


He actually wrote a really good YA fantasy that was ahead of its time in Eyes of the Dragon. 


The Dark Tower is... really not horror, it's kind of, hmm, urban fantasy mixed with post-apocalyptic cowboy fantasy.


Probably his most acclaimed horror novel is It. 


The Shining and its sequel are good books, but they're not really scary horror, they're sort of supernatural fantasy for me. Though the movie adaptation of The Shining is pretty scary.

",spamslots,2015-05-22 10:20:47
36uv7a,"Carrie is typical in that it has disturbing characters, but most of his books have a bit more levity - or at least less grimness. I remember finishing the book and feeling terrible about every person in the book. I felt the same way about the ending, I had hoped for a more... I don't know, karmic or hopeful ending, but it wasn't a disappointing ending like some of his others. ",,2015-05-22 08:56:24
36uv7a,"Carrie was my first too.  I don't know that it's the best place to start.  It is very disturbing and very dark, unrelentingly so.  Hard to believe I read that book as a depressed 16-year-old.  It's a wonder I didn't off myself.  

His other earlier books are dark, but usually not quite so consistently grim.  Pet Sematary is dark as night and very scary, but it has other things going on as well.  It has an amazing sense of atmosphere.  The Stand is my favorite, specifically the unabridged version.  It's just so epic, and so involving, that while you're reading it, it feels like it's all actually happening.  

I've only read book one of the Dark Tower series.  It was good, but I'm not in a hurry to get back into it.  You have to have a tolerance for high fantasy, where the world it takes place in is not our world, and that stuff tends to stonewall me.  One of the things I like most about King is that even in the most outlandish horror and fantasy plots, he's usually writing about this world, in a colloquial and relateable way that drags you into the reality of the book, and that's necessarily missing if the action takes place in a fantasy world. ",ArtSchnurple,2015-05-22 13:32:47
36uv7a,The good thing about Carrie is it translated well into a movie (1976). One of his better adaptations. It's a classic. ,,2015-05-22 10:06:10
36uv7a,"Carrie, regardless of it being considered a classic by some, is one of Stephen King's worst novels. It's poorly written and not particularly entertaining. King himself didn't even want to publish the book because he was embarrassed about it. I believe it was his wife who pushed him into actually turning it in to his editor. A lot of his other works are way more interesting and satisfying and are written more proficiently.",sky_LUKE_walker,2015-05-22 13:18:02
36uv7a,"I started with Carrie too, I've never found King's work particularly scary, I don't find horror movies scary either so I thought maybe this was just me but looking at the other comments I see I'm definitely not alone.

For me it's never been about how scary his books can be, though there are moments that really do stick with you years later, it's about telling a really good story.

I think if you go into a King novel thinking you're going to have to put the book down out of fear, you're only going to disappoint yourself. There are some stories and novels that have truly scary moments, Apt Pupil and It spring to mind, but they're mostly about telling a story with a dark side.",SirGuyGrand,2015-05-22 14:21:54
36uv7a,"It depends on what you're looking for.  I've always found King's placement of terror as exclamation points in much broader settings that are more about psychology, tone and atmosphere.  Having been a fan since about The Stand, it's been nice to see how his books have changed with the evolution of the modern popular novel from the '70s on.  If you look at his writing in the early days, it's easy to see how it fits in with writers like Peter Benchley and Trevanian, but King really transformed as times changed and people expected more out of books even if they were reading something that was created for the mass market.

The Dark Tower books are a great place to see this transformation take place as they were written over a large span of his career.  Ultimately they turn into an exploration of his own imagination and how creative ideas might stem from some universal pool that is tapped into through a type of Jungian collective unconscious.  He explores this idea with greater focus in Lisey's Story.

Yes, a lot of his books contain truly terrifying moments.  The bathtub woman in The Shining and the tunnel crossing in The Stand put my anxiety into overdrive when I read them at about 12, but the things that stuck with me through the course of his writing is how effortlessly he articulates the thought processes of obsessive individuals as they go through their descent into madness.  It's easy to how in many ways his writing is a continuation of the work of Edgar Allen Poe's glimpses into the inner workings of malformed minds.

It's really interesting to me how many younger writers are taking up the torch as King nears the end of his career.  Chuck Palahniuk's Haunted is a good example of King's work with psyche and Nick Cutter actually acknowledges that he borrowed from the structure of Carrie when he decided to frame The Troop within a series of news reports and official documents.  

So, with all the out of the way, will you enjoy King more by reading other books?  Taste is difficult to quantify, so who knows.  I'd usually tell people to start with The Shining because I think it encapsulates the core of King's genius.  If you enjoy that, try some of the Dark Tower books, perhaps Dreamcatcher, or even Lisey's Story as it shifts perspective to tell a victim's side of horror.  But remember that even King said his writing is the equivalent of a Big Mac and fries within a much broader literary menu.  His books have always filled my imagination's hunger even if they lacked certain refinements of more epicurean fare, but sometimes fast food fiction is all I really need.",wolfdaddy74701,2015-05-22 15:31:02
36uv7a,"I second a vote for 11/22/63, and it's the only King book I've read. Definitely not a horror book by any definition, but one of the very best books I've ever read anyway. 

Anyway - story about Carrie: I was watching ESPN on my SlingTV app, and it froze up so I switched the channel and switched it back...or tried to. Unfortunately, I'd switched the AMC right in the middle of the movie adaptation, and SlingTV bugged out and wouldn't let me change the channel, alone in my apartment in the dark just after midnight. Was scared. ",,2015-05-24 00:55:18
36uv7a,"Carrie was my first Stephen King book as well, and was different to what I expected. I'm currently reading On Writing which is making me want to read more of his work. ",,2015-05-22 12:36:34
36uv7a,"""And the ending left me disappointed - I was expecting redemption in a more obvious form."" Well, the very end of the book (the letter from the Amelia person) implies hope that Carrie has reincarnated into a more loving/accepting family, who won’t try to kill her for her powers.",mistixs,2015-08-04 21:00:13
36uv7a,"I think going in with expectations is always a bad idea.

The first Stephen King novel I read was Firestarter and I was hooked. He does have a lot of recurring themes, but I would say there's plenty of variety among his works that you should find something that you like better.

I'm on the last few pages of 11/22/63 and I can tell you now that it is very different from Carrie. Can't tell you anything about redemption/resolution because I haven't finished it yet (no spoilers, please), but I have really enjoyed it thus far.

Also, one that I remember loving in high school was The Eyes of the Dragon. Also very different from his typical horror fiction 'repertoire'.

Also, your description of 'spooky' makes me think you were expecting more terror than horror. One of Stephen King's quotes that I think may help shed some light on this is:

> I recognize terror as the finest emotion and so I will try to terrorize the reader. But if I find that I cannot terrify, I will try to horrify, and if I find that I cannot horrify, I'll go for the gross-out. I'm not proud.

Terror is what I think is most associated with spooky.",LickItAndSpreddit,2015-05-22 13:52:52
36uv7a,Is the writing similar to Carrie?,girlwithcoffeecup,2015-05-22 10:21:37
36uv7a,"Well, the very end of the book (the letter from the Amelia person) implies hope that Carrie has reincarnated into a more loving/accepting family, who won’t try to kill her for her powers.",mistixs,2015-08-04 21:03:02
36uv7a,"Or lengthen the story! I couldn't help comparing it to Matilda (which is silly, but there it is.) 
I was happy that Carrie finally understood how to use her powers, and I was hoping for some sort of happy ending, where her powers help her overcome the trauma or something like that. Though that final letter from the lady to her sister could be seen as sort of hopeful, I suppose.",girlwithcoffeecup,2015-05-22 09:28:26
36uv7a,"I wasn't surprised by what happened in Carrie, with the teenage girls at least. I think it's because I grew up reading stuff like that occasionally (I remember being horrified by *Blubber* and *The Princess Diaries*) or maybe because I've this trope in a lot of movies. But yeah, the ending was disappointing.",girlwithcoffeecup,2015-05-22 13:45:24
36uv7a,"I'm not familiar with any of his work, Carrie is the first book of his that I've read.

I'll look out for Different Seasons, thanks!

I'm not sure if I should start Dark Tower from the beginning - I like sticking to the reading order, but in this case I'm not sure whether I'll enjoy his writing enough to slough through the whole series.",girlwithcoffeecup,2015-05-22 09:22:58
36uv7a,"I didn't find it quite that bad, but he's the master of horror and I didn't find anything terrifying in Carrie. Hence this post.",girlwithcoffeecup,2015-05-22 13:17:05
36uv7a,"I don't even mind the story lacking redemption/resolution that much, but up until that point we'd been getting details about what went on in Carrie's head. The mass murder at the end was the climax of the whole story, so I was expecting a lot more of what she thought and what she felt. I wanted to feel her rage and her triumph. I wanted a crazy, indecipherable monologue in her head to match the sheer force of her actions and the writing didn't give me any of that.",girlwithcoffeecup,2015-05-22 14:07:29
36uv7a,"~~*It* is not part of the series, but they have a character in common.~~ ^Dammit ^it's ^too ^early... ^I'm ^thinking ^of ^The ^Stand, ^not ^It.
  
*Carrie* was King's first published novel, and it shows. He's learned a lot since then.  

That said, lots of people have already recommended the novella collections, and they are right. The short stories are great too -- *Night Shift* is one of my all-time favorite books.",GoateusMaximus,2015-05-22 10:46:51
36uv7a,His style gets more refined over time. It isn't an epistolary novel like Carrie (if that's what you meant). I think it's waaaaaay better than Carrie.,effcleff,2015-05-22 13:30:58
36uv7a,you'll have to read it and see! If you liked Carrie you won't be disappointed.,Whiteybulger617,2015-05-22 11:36:13
36uv7a,"they'll give you an idea of how versatile he can be without having to plow through a whole other book and hope it impresses you more then carrie did. then you can feel better about giving those books another shot. Duma Cay/Key is a good one also, dont have it in front of me so cant remember just how he spelled it. Enjoy, he is one of my very favorite authors.",Kinnakeet,2015-05-22 10:42:37
36uv7a,"Well I would caution again about expectations.

Maybe Carrie isn't well-written technically (I have no idea, I'm not a writer, editor, critic, etc.) because there is an apparent (again, I read it ages ago) inconsistency in the character insight.

Of course it is very likely intentional, and the point is to completely occlude that viewpoint from the reader because she's gone bat$#!+ crazy and there is a much more tangible sense of dread, horror, and fear associated with *not* knowing exactly what a person is thinking and feeling. Especially if you have grown accustomed to that narration and maybe even empathize with the character...",LickItAndSpreddit,2015-05-22 15:40:15
36uv7a,"I'm not sure, I haven't really read horror novels. Carrie was supposed to be sticking a toe in the water, but it wasn't even that. I'd rather not go straight in the deep end, though!",girlwithcoffeecup,2015-05-22 10:17:49
36uv7a,"I don't mind it being an epitolary novel. But there was too much buildup to the event and not enough of an afterword. I wanted to *know* what was going on in Carrie's head as she finally cracked and ended up killing all her classmates. I wanted to feel her rage, because I felt she had earned it, and it didn't happen.",girlwithcoffeecup,2015-05-22 13:58:03
36uv7a,"Carrie is kind of dated IMO. I agree with the person above you, try Pet Sematary or even Misery next. ",SonVoltMMA,2015-05-22 12:52:09
36uv7a,"I would say most of his books have a more satisfying conclusion. A lot of people criticize his books as having weak endings, and I don't disagree, but there are many of his books that are head and shoulders above Carrie.",effcleff,2015-05-22 15:27:27
36uv7a,"Surprisingly, what I didn't like about Carrie was how abruptly it ended. IMO he could have taken the story so many places - maybe added a happy footnote, or even a destructive one. Carrie's life was so miserable, and it ends on such a sad note. I also wish he could have expounded more on how she felt at that point, instead of switching to the reports and eyewitness accounts. ",girlwithcoffeecup,2015-05-22 13:48:50
zi4yk7,I actually thought it was better than 7HOEH. Carrie was such an interesting character. I’d love to read more like this.,ParishRomance,2022-12-11 04:01:36
zi4yk7,I didn’t hate it but I would have loved a lot more breadth and depth. I could see it being a good base for a movie script where a really excellent actress could bring Carrie to life.,saltyt00th,2022-12-10 22:13:16
zi4yk7,I liked this book a lot- while it did feel like 90% tennis 5% father daughter relationship 5% romance??? I freaking loved Carrie- I’m sorry but if her character was a male people wouldn’t be saying she was unlikeable 🤷‍♀️,LowJicama536,2022-12-20 05:01:41
zi4yk7,"I loved this book. I read this and a few other books before Evelyn Hugo, and Carrie Soto was my favorite until that point. She's so prickly and I love it!",RedBeardtongue,2022-12-11 01:47:09
zi4yk7,"I hated Evelyn Hugo with a fiery passion, was extra disappointed because it had come so highly recommended. By contrast, I enjoyed Carrie Soto fine. These are the only two TJR novels I've read - are all of her main characters such awful people?",crazyplantlaydee,2022-12-11 20:08:26
zi4yk7,"Worst tennis book ever written . . . here's why:

[We Defy Augury: Carrie Soto is Wack (20)](https://www.podcastics.com/episode/215883/link/)",professortruck,2022-12-13 10:18:01
zi4yk7," I don't think either Evelyn or Carrie are awful people. 

You might prefer Nina in Malibu Rising. She is an archetypal Eldest Daughter, so busy looking after everyone else she forgets to look after herself.",Indifferent_Jackdaw,2022-12-11 21:22:54
v560l3,"I read *Carrie* for the first time about a year ago and I must say, it’s a hell of a first novel! 

For anyone just getting into Stephen King’s works I’d highly recommend *Misery*, it’s probably my favourite book and the film with James Caan and Kathy Bates is brilliant as well.",WinstonSEightyFour,2022-06-05 04:57:45
v560l3,"I just love this book so much. I really related to Carrie growing up. More so the outcast/bullying side of things and less so the telekinetic rampage. Its almost like a fantasy for those of us that were bullied in high school. That's something interesting to think about too. Is Carrie the villain by the end because of all the people she kills or just a victim of all the bad shit that happened to her? 

Sorry this is a long winded reply, but I could legit talk about Carrie for hours on end.",Chaotic_Gayboyy,2022-06-06 11:47:50
v560l3,"In the 2002 made for TV movie, Carrie lives at the end of it. So big change there.",Dana07620,2022-06-05 18:48:55
v560l3,"For me, *Carrie* is one of my top favorite Stephen King novels. I had no idea it was made into a musical! When I saw that in your post a scene from *The Simpsons* popped in my head where there was a performance of *Planet of the Apes the Musical*.",,2022-06-05 20:37:11
n156hn,"I thought it was very effective, though I don't think his very dim view of human nature rings very true: Carrie is enough of a cipher to make it feel a little unrealistic even though he pays so much attention to rendering the social conditions realistically.  Hurstwood's temptation and slow collapse felt more believable to me, though.",MattMauler,2021-04-29 20:06:19
n156hn,"I read Sister Carrie a few years ago and definitely liked it, although it wasn't my favorite novel by Theodore Dreiser. It was his first big work, if I remember correctly. It didn't seem as compelling as An American Tragedy and especially The Financier trilogy.",Moonstone1966,2021-04-30 07:51:54
n156hn,"I took a Victorian Literature class in college about 20 years ago. Most of the required novels were short reads, but the big one at the end was Sister Carrie, which I'd heard of but never read. We were allowed to skip a minimum number of books but we all had to read Sister Carrie. I avoided as many as I could get away with (I was married, had 4 kids, majoring in history, minoring in English, had tons of reading/writing and working at the college cafeteria, so I was a little busy).

To my surprise (and relief), I really enjoyed Dreiser's novel, his first. It was very controversial at the time because the main character, Carrie Meeber, was a ""kept woman,"" living with a man--a no-no back then--and later becoming involved w/a married man, but also became a star of the stage under the name Carrie Madenda. Dreiser's should have ended his novel with Carrie's downfall because of her actions, thus providing the reader with a moral lesson, but he didn't. She ended up doing very well for herself despite running around w/men.

I haven't read it since, but I do remember enjoying the novel and the class discussions which followed.",ilovelucygal,2021-04-30 12:58:34
n156hn,"I just finished the book last night and thought it was outstanding. Reading the downfall of Hurstwood was like watching a slow motion train wreck. How could this man be so self-destructive? It killed me how this guy impulsively through his whole life away especially at his low points when he remembered his former life in Chicago and knew there was no going back. Did the description of his daughter Jessica's married life to a wealthy young man make you feel more tragic?

I was having false hope that when Carrie ran into Hurstwood towards the end of the novel that she would help him out and put him on track for a short time at the very least. Had Carrie assisted Hurstwood the novel would not have been as effective. One character's downfall into the abyss contrasted with another's ascent to the top was so heartbreaking especially when the two initially met they were at opposite ends of society. Hurstwood started off as a well off man and went downhill and Carrie started out poor and climbed upwards. When did you think their respective trajectories intersected?

Another thing I found interesting was a late 19th century take on celebrity culture. Did you notice that even then celebrities were taken care of such as Carrie's luxurious apartment in a fancy hotel which catered to the famous for the sake of the hotel's marketing?

I know some other people have mentioned **American Tragedy** which I read several years ago and in that book Dreiser turns the American dream on its head as well. In that book a rise and fall trajectory is used differently and with equal effect.",LimeSugar,2021-05-27 14:12:11
n156hn,"I actually had the opposite thought, I actually identified more with Carrie and less with Hurstwood, and found her to be more believable.",Cold-Penguin-2846,2021-04-30 00:20:47
n156hn,"Interestingly, An American Tragedy, which came out 25 years later, is what finally made his career. He was in financial trouble constantly before that. So Sister Carrie, his biggest commercial flop is what most remember him for now (and yes, both books are good btw).",MattMauler,2021-04-29 20:15:13
n156hn,"Interesting! Carrie does have very relatable wants aspirations, I suppose, especially since Dreiser describes the comforts, clothing, fame, etc., in such minute detail.  It's been a while since I read it, but I remember Dreiser saying directly at one point that *desire* was the one mainstay of her character, and I was like, yeah, I wish there was more to her.

The scene where Hurstwood agonizes over the decision to take the money I found so remarkable.  Technically in control of his actions, yet in a way, he avoids making a decision until it's made for him.  He feels like he's trapped, swept along by a tide of events, but if we didn't have access to his thoughts in so much depth, the story--the same events--would feel entirely different.  I've never stolen any money, but that agonizing felt pretty familiar to me, tbh.",MattMauler,2021-04-30 02:08:45
n156hn,"I was reading the wiki for ""Sister Carrie"" and I can see why the book may not have done well for that era due to themes that may not have been as socially acceptable, but it shouldn't apply as much for today's readers.  But regarding the writers from 1890-1920 I also wonder why!",Cold-Penguin-2846,2021-04-29 17:06:49
n156hn,"For Hurstwood's character, that was probably my favorite scene in terms of the classic good/bad voice in the head struggle! But I didn't like that he gave up in his downfall. 

For Carrie, having lived in both Chicago and New York, I can understand her struggles of dealing with big city life before she makes it.  I also liked how her desires and thoughts changed as she became more successful, in terms of how money/success can change people.",Cold-Penguin-2846,2021-04-30 14:43:22
n156hn,"I had no pre-conceived thoughts or ideas before reading Sister Carrie, so it took a little bit of time to get into the book.  But that sounds awesome for An American Tragedy.",Cold-Penguin-2846,2021-04-30 17:02:05
n156hn,"The writers exist in that era, they are just not taught often, except in graduate level literature courses.

As for *Sister Carrie*, I think you're right. It was considered scandalous in its time.",Ineffable7980x,2021-04-29 17:13:43
e6urdk,"Lord lol.

Ok firstly, life is far too short for books you don't like! I used to be like that too, and *hated* not finishing something I had started. But if you learn to let yourself off the hook, you will feel so much better and have so much more time to enjoy the ones you *do* like!

Second, some of his books are not for everyone. I personally loved Carrie, but I was also a strange high school girl with no friends, so... XD

If it's not for you, then don't sweat it! I actually enjoy having a DNF list on Goodreads, because I can either let them go, or pick them up another time for a second chance :)",izzidora,2019-12-06 16:34:43
e6urdk,"Currently reading Carrie, about halfway through, and I am enjoying it. Not as good as The Shining, but I am still enjoying it very much.",HairyBaIIs007,2019-12-06 07:34:29
e6urdk,"At the time he wrote ""Carrie"", King was teaching at a girls' school.   His depiction of the girls was dead on, which could be why you didn't care much fir the book.  Teenage girls often behave exactly as they do in the book.  


Read "" 'Salem's Lot"" alone, at night, with the windows uncovered.   A second-floor room is preferred.  

One of the things that King is so good at is the beginning of a story.   Everything will seem normal then he will apply his special screw driver to give things a little tweak.",OldestCrone,2019-12-06 06:38:17
e6urdk,"I know I'm a bit late to this, bit I'm so glad I found your post. I've just finished Carrie, and I barely made it through. This was the first King Novel I've read, and I wasn't sure if his writing style was for me, but it seems it improves.

Did you end up finishing the book?",thebestaudrina,2020-05-02 13:20:59
e6urdk,"Glad you can enjoy it! I’m not feeling it as much. Might dip into another book for a bit and come
Back to Carrie.",litmas69,2019-12-06 07:37:47
xnl18o,"Carrie is SO good, I love the style he used to tell that story. My mom just re-read Salem’s Lot and I’m trying to get her to read that next.",Vanessak69,2022-09-25 14:06:55
xnl18o,"I gotta say that I didn’t find it that engrossing, maybe because by now the story is already so well known that I knew the ending before starting the book. The horror aspect of early King works in general doesn’t really grip me because the concepts presented are kind of tame and played out by now. Kind of difficult to be shocked by Carrie’s TK powers when you grew up watching *Elfenlied* (not that it was a particularly good show). 

I’d say it’s the worst King book I’ve read so far, though to be fair I’ve mostly read his most popular books. 

It being his first published novel may play a part in that but then again I thought The Long Walk was much better and he apparently originally wrote that as a teen.",kalinac_,2022-09-26 15:31:41
xnl18o,I remember checking out Carrie from the school library and enjoying the format of the novel. It felt like reading a true crime documentary even though everything was fictional.,RogueEarth616,2022-09-27 06:58:38
tx3oro,"*Sister Carrie* is a great novel published in America in 1900.  Dreiser, as I recall from my literature study days, was very interested in the politics of work and the working class.  The translation you mentioned is not all that different from the original in English.",Ineffable7980x,2022-04-06 14:29:14
kqg3af,"There is way, way crazier writing out there than a girl and her period. Your question might be better as “Could Stephen King debut with Carrie in 2021’s mainstream media culture?” Which, interestingly, seems to be at odds with itself. It would somehow be “pervy” for an unknown male author to write that but it seems perfectly acceptable for, say, women to prance around in nearly nothing and over-sexualize themselves on a stage while singing about someone going down on them.",Recondite_Potato,2021-01-05 01:16:09
5knrro,"Carrie Fisher drowned in moonlight, strangled by her own bra",sweetjPDX,2016-12-28 02:57:07
5knrro,"We have such a disillusioned perspective on death it seriously annoys me. This isn't a ""fuck you"" from 2016. You aren't children anymore. You're getting older every day and the people you looked up to as kids are also. During the remaining years of your life, people who mean more to us than Carrie will be gone. Mourn them, yes. But celebrate their lives. That's what Carrie wanted. I'm sick of this ""2016"" mentality that makes EVERYTHING pertain to YOU rather than the person. From a man who is associated with ""Valar Morghulis"" the ""I'm done with 2016"" is so stupid. Stop making other people's deaths about YOU and celebrate THEIR lives. Move on already. You're gonna die one day too. Sorry to be so gloom, but I'm so tired of this 2016 ideology. You're just growing up and time is passing, nothing more. And 2016 isn't ""out to get us"" ... Celebrate her life like SHE wanted and be thankful she was here with us and stop making her death about you.",,2016-12-28 16:37:12
5knrro,"""I want it reported that I drowned in moonlight, strangled by my own bra."" --Carrie Fisher, *Wishful Drinking*",twbrn,2016-12-28 06:19:40
5knrro,"And honor me by not mourning for my death, but rather celebrate my life. We can throw quotes around all day each supporting our position. But the fact still remains in my comment. Stop making this a ""fuck you"" from 2016 and accept you're getting older and death is a more common occurrence in your life. The comments of ""oh my god I don't think i can live"" etc. Are so obnoxious to me I was in a more annoyed state of mind when leaving the original comment. But the fact still remains the same. People are posting and making her passing about how they feel, rather than celebrating Carrie. ",,2016-12-28 17:24:45
hbhbe2,"Hi Carrie,

Just wanted to let you know that I reread your Golden Age books every eighteen months or so. What inspired you to write those?",Dngrsone,2020-06-18 16:53:41
hbhbe2,"Hi Carrie,

What kind of books do you like to read? Anything in particular you would like to recommend to us?

Thanks for doing this AMA!",leowr,2020-06-18 16:38:33
hbhbe2,"Hi Carrie!

 I love your books and especially find your writing style extremely smooth, which I love. In order for me to fall in love with an author, I need to fall in love wih their writing style and yours is incredible! 

I was curious, who are some authors that inspired you to become a writer?",WavyTrev,2020-06-18 18:01:07
hbhbe2,"I'm an aspiring writer with a year 10 equalivent of grammar and puncuation. I am afraid that my writing will be hindered by that fact. Any advice, Carrie?",Psudonym666,2020-06-18 23:26:41
1r8k3h,"Carrie sucked and that's coming from a King fan. I've never read Dreamcatcher, loved Salem's Lot, though.

Try Misery. You might just not be into his paranormal fiction books. Misery is more straight up fiction.",,2013-11-22 19:57:04
1r8k3h,"I liked dreamcatcher! It most definitely had a lot of moments where either nothing was going on, or their explanations were half assed for things until you connected the dots pages later on. I completely can understand why a lot of people have problem getting through it. Pacing is a huge concern with that book.

The original Carrie was a better movie than a book, and you have to take into account that the movie came out in the 70s where horror was a different ballgame than it is now. It's aged well in the sense that it's a classic in our society, but it's not going to have nearly the same effect that watching Sissy Spacek almost 40 years ago is going to have on newcomers today. Our attitudes towards the genre as a whole our different, we've become desensitized in comparison to reactions to the genre when it was written. 


Personally my favorite King novels were Eye of the Dragon and Firestarter. The latter of which was a shittastic movie only known as one of Drew Barrymore's first, but the book was infinitely better. 

Newcomers to King also need to be aware of the radical shift in writing style when he stops doing drugs ( he's admitted that he doesn't even remember writing huge chunks of some of his books ), and sobers up. I always say start with Classic King and work forwards, not all of his works are for everyone. ",,2013-11-22 20:46:08
1r8k3h,"I liked 'Carrie' when I read it at 13. Yea, the writing wasn't great, the plot was crude and it was full of unlikeable characters. I liked it because it's a revenge fantasy and I hadn't read many books with telekinesis in it.",Philofelinist,2013-11-23 01:22:48
1r8k3h,I read Carrie in anticipation of the remake and actually really liked it. I thought King did some interesting stuff with the telekinesis and the general characterization of Carrie and the other major players.,sapandsawdust,2013-11-23 06:18:37
1r8k3h,"I don't think books need to be told from an omnipotent POV, but i feel like Carrie suffered from the lack of that. 

I was never in Carrie's mind to see what she really thought. Her dying really meant nothing to me, because i didn't care about her or any other character in the book. Speaking of her dying, I'm guessing she died from a heart attack? either i missed it or it just wasn't really explained. I wasn't sure how she died exactly. 

IMO the telekinesis was kinda weak. 

""*flex*, the pipes busted.""

 I think this is also the result of not having an omnipotent POV. 

I *did* like the personal interviews and excepts from other ""books."" I thought that was really cool, and i have never seen another book do that. ",TylertheDouche,2013-11-23 20:33:18
1r8k3h,"It ditches the structure, which would be hard to do as a movie. It's also got Brian de Palma as a director, and he's got a talent for psychological thrillers, violence, and heavily built up set pieces, which the novel has tons of room for.  It doesn't characterize Carrie's mom as much, she's more of a simpler evil parent. There's the occasional cheesily obvious symbolism, but it's a horror thriller not Jodorowsky. 

It's definitely worth watching, and it's on netflix. ",franticantelope,2013-11-22 21:29:13
1r8k3h,"The interviews and excerpts were definitely neat, and I guess what I liked about the telekinesis aspects was their immediacy- those parts seemed to almost have a poetic lilt.

I forget what the narrative structure of the novel is, but I guess part of what I liked is that so much of the novel was about how Carrie was *perceived* by everyone else. I can definitely see that inhibiting how much some readers would care about her/her fate, though.",sapandsawdust,2013-11-24 20:28:35
1r8k3h,"I agree. It was almost like the book, *Carrie* could have been called ""The Dissertation of Carrie White.""

It was told from an entirely different POV than i have read before",TylertheDouche,2013-11-25 01:48:33
5km1bl,"Carrie Fisher died today. She drowned in moonlight, strangled by her own bra. RIP.  (This is a hat tip to Carrie Fisher, the author).",BloodFarts101,2016-12-27 21:44:05
5km1bl,"I didn't even know about her books, but she was always so funny. I can imagine her books provide a lot of comic relief.  It's always sad when someone passes away, and we've lost a lot of good people lately, but hearing about Carrie Fisher made me particularly sad. I'm a big fan of Debbie Reynolds. She has such class and grace despite being dealt a particularly tough hand, and it's so sad when a mother buries her own child.  They were so close. I'm sure losing Carrie coming as a big blow.  ",RuckerSRocks,2016-12-28 02:24:20
5kw33p,"Amazon is a bit of a special case.  As the editors of *Machine of Death* learned, Amazon sells so many titles that on any given day they might only sell a couple hundred of any given title.  All it takes to briefly top the charts is a little surge in demand.  

Still, it's nice to see people getting interested in Fisher's writing.  I know [script doctors](http://www.slashfilm.com/carrie-fisher-script-doctor/) generally work in the background uncredited, but she had her hand in a lot of great films.  ",,2016-12-29 17:34:57
5kw33p,Do you still have people come in looking for them? I went to Amazon yesterday specifically to see how Carrie's last book was doing in the wake of her death and saw that it was the number one selling book on the site. I'm pretty sure that happened without Amazon plastering it on the main page.,,2016-12-29 16:48:11
5kw33p,I use the Hoopla app to get audio books through my library card. They plastered Carrie on the main page. I admit downloading Wishful Drinking and am currently listening. I was looking for something entirely different.,11102015-1,2016-12-29 17:43:46
3sfrcu,I think you nailed it. The realness of every part of Carrie's experience except for the telekinesis makes it horribly believable. Especially in the way it's written as news reports and textbooks. He makes it very easy to suspend disbelief and feel like this is something that actually happened.,Mystprism,2015-11-11 19:48:32
3sfrcu,"It is interesting that King doesn't often write in this style much. However, in some of his longer novels we see a technical style that is similar to the news reports and textbook experts seen in Carrie.  ",grandpasghost,2015-11-14 07:41:22
453oso,"Hi Carrie!

What was your inspiration for becoming an author - and for writing your 'Kitty' series? Are you secretly a talk-show-radio-host-werewolf?",KarmaNeutrino,2016-02-10 17:23:21
453oso,"Hey, Carrie.  I absolutely loved your Kitty Norville series, but I confess I stopped around book 5.  I had a few questions for you if you don't mind. 

1.  How much reading do you do in comparison to writing?  

2.  How do you decide how much sex to show versus telling in your books?  I struggle with skipping it all together or possibly putting too much text to it.  

3.  If you had to suggest your favorite books for us to reed that aren't your own, what would you suggest?  

Thanks for being awesome!  I look forward to your responses!
",,2016-02-10 17:26:47
453oso,"Hi Carrie! I first stumbled across your Kitty series in audio on my library's Overdrive. I loved them and Marguerite Gavin's performances. Then, of course, I had to buy every new one.  So, I must ask, how does it feel to end a much-loved series? Relief? Sadness? And do you ever find yourself with an idea for something in Kitty's world and have to remind yourself it's a closed book, so to speak? 

I must also add that I really enjoyed After the Golden Age and many of the short stories you have written too. ""Amaryllis"" totally deserves a Hugo win! ^fingerscrossed ",cheryllovestoread,2016-02-10 17:30:06
453oso,"Hi Carrie! What are the odds of you and Jim Butcher doing a collaboration, particularly a Kitty Norville / Harry Dresden crossover? And would it be part of one continuity or the other, both, or a one-off?",,2016-02-10 17:49:11
5x300n,"I saw her one woman show Wishful Drinking when she did a limited run of it on Broadway. She was hilarious.

HBO did a special that was basically just them recording her doing the stage performance. Highly recommended.

I'll definitely check out the audiobook version of this, especially since my girlfriend is a big fan of both Carrie Fisher and Billie Lourd.",Muroid,2017-03-02 13:19:59
5kmauy,"I wanted to read The Princess Diarist, but [The Guardian's review](https://www.theguardian.com/books/2016/dec/20/princess-diarist-carrie-fisher-review-harrison-ford) of it was not very encouraging.",jeyoung,2016-12-28 13:48:08
5l4eae,"Was Carrie Fisher a great actress? Her only great role was Princess Leia.  Like Mark Hamill - he's also never done anything major since Star Wars - will he also be remembered as a ""great actor""? Why do people make such a big deal about a one hit wonder (so to speak)? I understand the shock of someone iconic from your childhood dying (early, or worse, of something more age related if on the early end of that). It displays the truth of your own mortality. I don't want to malign the woman but I tire of the hollywood hype. That every actress is beyond beautiful and sooooo talented. The men are all heart throbs. Frankly, I do not find them all so vastly attractive. Some, not at all. Simply telling me that they are does not make it so. To each his own. They are playing dress up and getting paid for it. That they can convince me they ""are"" that character is laudable (I am abysmal at acting) but they are in effect, great liars which is not. Sorry for the rant but don't get me started on sports ""heroes"" pfft.",implodemode,2016-12-30 17:12:06
4dym57,"1) Yes. 2) No. Sue points out that Carrie is telepathically projecting to the entire town. Everyone can hear her. Presumably, she can hear everyone. 3) They're (most likely) not related. Immediately before the Jenks letter, we have the quote from the The State Investigatory Board of Maine concluding, ""we find no reason to believe that a recurrence is likely or even possible."" The Jenks anecdote is to indicate that this government entity is either lying or deluded, that TK is a not uncommon phenomenon, and that, given the way the White affair concluded, it's extremely likely that something along those lines WILL happen again. ",dimatheinhaler,2016-04-08 22:21:42
3r8065,"I only just learned that Carrie from Portlandia is the same Carrie from Sleater Kinney.

[Jumpers is such a great song](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=04tXkJRzUVI)",,2015-11-02 17:31:48
5o21r7,"Definitely PM me when you do get it and start reading it. After I posted this I was able to go back and read some more, it's just still a kind of weird feeling like you're happy/having fun then reality hits you again. But the more I read it and see what kind of fun person Carrie was the more I think she'd want me to enjoy this book, which I am still",Sheehan7,2017-01-15 04:54:46
2280pv,"11/22/63 is a beautiful book and was my 3rd Stephen King book.

If you liked the sprawling, multi-state, large scale journey aspect of the book The Stand is a great next stop.

If you liked the relationship-y and sweeter aspect of the book I recommend Joyland. 

If you liked the love letter to the 50s aspect of the book, It and The Body from Different Seasons are a good place to look.

If you liked the broken arms, slashed faces, decapitated teenagers, and hammer-swinging alcoholics of it all you can't go wrong with Misery, The Shining, Carrie, Cujo and about a dozen others.

If you really are intimidated about length, especially try Misery, Carrie, Cujo, or Firestarter. They are all quite short and the fact that they are near impossible to put down will bolster your confidence to tackle equally fun behemoths like The Stand, It, and Under the Dome.

Have fun and good luck!

Edit: Also, I would be remiss not to direct your attention to r/stephenking which is a lovely corner of reddit and very helpful in these types of cases
",no_capes,2014-04-05 03:33:31
