post_id,comment_text,author,created_utc
vflcmb,"I was wildly disappointed by the Cruel Prince. It’s a major step down in quality by Holly Black, compared to her earlier works like Tithe.",Chathtiu,2022-06-19 03:21:56
vflcmb,"See, I loved The Cruel Prince for that very reason... it actually took it's time, allowed itself to be atmospheric, was a slow burn. I love spy stories that really get into the weeds and slowly build up a tone/line up the dominos which it knocks down in act 3, which is essentially what TCP is... which I was NOT expecting at first (but worked for me, obvs). It's a rare series where the big banger of a plot twist happens in book 2--book two is, amazingly, not simply a bridge book (filler), and imo was better than TCP.  But yeah, overall it's not as fast paced, but it vibed for me. YMMV!",alexatd,2022-06-19 06:34:13
1amjtnb,"Holly Black has a long history of writing fairies and her specific type is based on older European folklore in that whilst they can be helpful and friendly to humans (brownies) a lot of them view themselves to superior to humans and don't have the same sets of morality humans do. 

I don't think any of Folk of the Air books get into the whys in particular but if you're curious about her earlier world building around this I would check out her Modern Faerie Tales series (some of the characters in that have small roles in The Cruel Prince books) or her middle grade series The Spiderwick Chronicles which is kind of her thesis statement on her portrayal of faeries.

I would also add the idea of fairies being small and benevolent beings is a relatively modern interpretation. In Ireland particularly folklore surrounding fairies have always portrayed them as more capricious and unpredictable.

Edit: I just remembered the general answer is humans as seen as less than and as toys and people who provide services, a lot of it is pride on fairies part because they often lure human artisans to make  things and entertain them, and to provide children as fairies in that world aren't particularly fertile. Jude and her sister occupy a controversial space because they're raised as aristocratic children in the home of their Foster father/step father etc and allowed into elite circles despite them being humans and even more controversially, as products of what Elfhame view as an extramarital affair. And the way Madoc treasures them (in a fairy way) particularly sticks in the craw of a certain character for reasons you'll realise as the story unfolds.",rivains,2024-02-09 10:13:58
10ujur0,"Prob the 1st such review of this book I'm coming across, Insta is always raving about it.

2nd n 3rd books were better imo. The trilogy is overall a quick, 1 time read. 

But I had a lot of issues with The Cruel Prince,  I couldn't digest the enemies-to-lovers thing because Cardan's character wasn't someone grey in 1st half, he was straight up an evil bully. Infact he felt like another person in book 2 to me. 

I also didn't like any character and the entire younger gen characters just brought out a strange revulsion in me for them. It's weird. But I do appreciate that Holly Black wrote decently and engagingly. 

I think the book is very YA. There are other books written for kids or YA that never feel YA no matter at what age you read them, but this one did.",PinkMoonbow,2023-02-05 19:31:46
10ujur0,"Based on the things you picked up on in the Cruel Prince (and didn't like) I'd hazard that you wouldn't like Mass's books.

I sort of enjoyed the Cruel Prince, though had similar issues to it as you did. When I read the Mass books they outright pissed me off.",thelibraryowl,2023-02-05 22:23:31
xz3cy2,"I finished the cruel prince and read half of the wicked king but it got boring.. i also don't get the hype around cardan and jude because they suddenly have all this sexual chemistry and like each other etc etc literally out of nowhere. 
I'll post a review if I finish the wicked king but I'd give these books 6/10 for now. 
And before you say that it's not a romance book, I know. And it's still mid so far 🤷🏼‍♀️ I really wanted to like it tho",Character_Yoghurt_11,2023-02-05 11:27:13
13rdk9j,I didn't dislike Black's writing and the story but the characters make me so impossibly mad that it's hard for me to continue the series. I feel FOMO from everyone loving The Cruel Prince and having such a big fandom but honestly its just not for me. I'm willing to give The Stolen Heir a try whenever my 'To Read' list gets shorter.,Kykuuichi,2024-03-19 22:10:16
13rdk9j,">There's no proper set up for the world Jude finds herself in. In my opinion, a good book is one that is able to explain a world within the plot,

The Cruel Prince is the **fifth** book in an established universe.  I don't think Holly Black predicted that a huge portion of her audience would come from booktok. It's reasonable to assume that people reading the Cruel Prince had read the 4 others first.

>Also, I despised Cardan. I've seen so many comments and reviews saying they love him, but I hate him with a burning passion. I cannot stand the hot bully love interest, and Cardan is no exception. He treats Jude awfully the whole way through the book, and as soon as HE needs something, he starts treating her a little better but still like an entitled jerk. Abusive and problematic men being treated as the ultimate love interest is just gross to me. Now, I have since read the two sequels to the trilogy, and it gets a bit better - especially in The Queen of Nothing. And yes I know it's the whole character arc thing, but it's still gross.

&#x200B;

I think you're supposed to despise Cardan, as the cruel prince is not a romance. It's a YA Fantasy-Court Intrigue novel, and he's a major antagonist. I hated him too, and honestly I wasn't quite fond of him by the end of the trilogy either. His negative impact on her life drives her to do many things, some great, some not so great.  Their relationship in the first two books is largely Jude trying to gain as much power as possible over him. The only book of the trilogy I would call a romance would be 'The Queen of Nothing', but even then it's a subplot. This series is not a romance, and it isn't about the romance. It's Jude's coming of age story. This trilogy is about Jude trying to gain agency over her situation.",DancingWithAWhiteHat,2023-10-28 17:29:07
13rdk9j,"You make some very good points, many of which I agree with. 

But the cruel prince is the first book in a trilogy, and I think a good author will recognise that a first book in a new series will bring new readers, no matter how many books she’s written in the past. It’s not necessary to rewrite the entire history or backstory or culture of a land or world, but enough explanation for a new reader to get what’s going on and then they can backtrack if they want. 

A lot of the time readers don’t find an author and then go back and read their earliest books first - they find a book and go from there. Speaking only for myself, but I’m sure many others share this sentiment, most of my favourite books I’ve picked up at the library or in a charity shop with no knowledge of the author or their prior work. I do think authors should be prepared for new readers wether they expect it or not. 

I do agree that the novel, and the series as a whole, is largely about court politics which it lends itself to very well. But I do think there are romance aspects throughout the entire series. It’s been a long time since I’ve read it and I don’t have a copy so I can’t offer any specifics, but I certainly remember Jude falling in love with Cardan despite him being a bully, which if I remember correctly was the main plot of like half the book. ",Ghost_Wyvern,2024-02-18 10:05:41
qwbalx,"I read The Cruel Prince series after finishing The Throne of Glass series and enjoyed TCP series more than I did ToG. ToG was too long, too much and shit was just thrown together to make things happen just to make the story longer. After getting mentally exhausted trying to finish ToG, TCP was a breath of fresh air to me since the writing was straightforward and concise. I was taken aback at first due to the writing style but as I went on I began to enjoy myself immensely and finished all 3 books in the TCP series in less than a week. 

It’s too bad that you didn’t enjoy it but it’s okay, everybody has different tastes and there are so many books that cater to our preferences that we can read.",kuntum,2021-11-18 10:29:18
p8eqia,"Tbh I hated the cruel prince at first. I then read the other two books in the series and was completely captivated. I usually don’t like reading YA-fantasy (even as a young teen), but I really liked how the series progressed. I went back and read the cruel prince and while the first time I thought there wasn’t much going on, when reading the second time knowing what I did, there was a lot of neat Easter eggs and foreshadowing tidbits sprinkled throughout the book. I thought Jude was insufferable and whiny in the first book but she really becomes a character I admired in the other two.",kernelpanic0202,2021-08-20 23:21:17
p8eqia,"Seconding the Daevabad trilogy.  I had the same reactions to The Cruel Prince you two are describing here, and Daevabad is one of my all-time favorites, so perhaps our tastes are also aligned there.",BlacktailJack,2021-08-21 03:07:15
acksl7,Thank you so much for doing this Holly! I have been a long time fan for over a decade and am so excited for the release of The Wicked King! My question is actually about your Tithe series. You had a short story about Kaye in the Barnes and Noble edition of The Cruel Prince and the inner teenager in me was so excited to read about these characters again! Do you see anymore stories around Kaye and Roiben popping up in the future?,EyezOnFyre,2019-01-04 18:56:22
acksl7,"I really really loved The Cruel Prince. It's exciting and unexpected and soul-satisfying. Jude, and her relationship with her family in particular, is so fascinating. Can you share a bit about the conception of the character of Jude Duarte? Also, I loved Taryn's POV in The Lost Sisters. Will we ever get to read something from Madoc's POV?",frankincensesmonster,2019-01-04 18:39:53
acksl7,"Hi Holly\~! 

I Just wanted to say I love your writing and you are a major inspiration for me in my own writing! I also absolutely love everything Faerie and folklore so your writing hits a perfect sweet spot for me! 

Reading The Cruel Prince was an absolute delight and I can't wait to read The Wicked King! My question though that I am dying to know is what was the inspiration for Prince Cardan and his character? I love him and hate him in both equal measure and can't wait to see more of him!",,2019-01-04 19:19:31
acksl7,"Hi Holly! Quick question: How did you decide on the name ""Jude Duarte""? I'm Latina and I know a lot of Latinx people with the last name ""Duarte,"" is she meant to be Latina or a similar ethnicity? :) 

&#x200B;

Currently re-reading The Cruel Prince to be all set and refreshed for The Wicked King. The Cruel Prince is my favorite book along with Six of Crows and A Court of Mist and Fury. I absolutely can't wait for it. ;\_; YAAAS to all the Jude/Cardan material that will be in TWK!! Thank you so much for writing such a fantastic series (which I hope can extend past three books somehow? Ohohoho.)",solas29,2019-01-04 18:59:22
acksl7,"Hey Holly! 

Question on craft. I love the way tension arcs through in your work. The Curse Workers series had a lot of anticipation tension, and in The Cruel Prince I feel like the tension comes from how what I expect to happen happens so quickly, I dont have enough time to even guess what could come next. I really admire how you do this. 

How do you approach this in your writing? Is it planned? Is it something you revise into your drafts? What tips do you have on adding tension to a work? 

Thanks :)",Purdypirate,2019-01-04 19:10:39
acksl7,"Hi Holly! I become a fan of your books back in 2011 when my grandma bought me Tithe, and from then on I've been reading your work.

Who is/was your favourite character to write, out of the cast from The Cruel Prince, or just in general?",rainbowdynasty,2019-01-04 19:10:53
acksl7,"No questions, but I’m literally rereading The Cruel Prince right now so I can be refreshed when the sequel is released! I absolutely love your book and I usually don’t enjoy fantasies. Yours was so well developed and written! Thank you for being awesome!! ❤️",mermaidlibrarian,2019-01-04 18:17:31
acksl7,"Wow! I just finished the cruel prince yesterday, and I loved it!

My question is how did you come up with the idea for the book?  And what's your favorite book?",boondoggle333,2019-01-04 19:17:51
acksl7,"Hi Holly! 

I'm ridiculously excited because I get to meet you on your book tour on the 14th in Salt Lake! I have absolutely loved all of your books, and loved that the Cruel Prince seemed to fall in the same sort of realm as the Darkest Part of the Forest. I think that it was an amazing twist with Taryn, and I wasn't expecting it one bit. I'm excited beyond all to read Wicked King - had to make sure that I got done with Queen of Air and Darkness so I could actually focus! My question is actually for the Magisterium series - are we going to see anything else in that world? I know that the last book was the end of that particular series - but I wasn't sure if there would be anything else written for that world. 

I appreciate everything that you have done for us, and appreciate that you have taken the time to chat with us today. See you in 10 days! :D ",xjennamaex,2019-01-04 20:00:17
acksl7,"I apologize \*so hard\* for asking this, but I just had a baby and I have to know about your process. How do you get to work creating all these incredible characters when you have zero motivation and/or energy? I admire the Cruel Prince so much and I'm so thankful to you for bringing it to all of us!",tenosce1206,2019-01-04 20:03:51
acksl7,"So sad i missed this AMA!! 

10 years ago i read Tithe and Valiant.. but I couldn't finish the trilogy because of Ironside, the last book. I couldn't find it in any local bookstore. I felt so down then...

A few years after, I stumbled upon Ironside buried in a shelf at a store for school supplies. I was so ecstatic! 

Then I read the Curseworker series books 5 years ago, which are also my favorites. 

I always hoped for their movie/tv series adaptations.

Just started The Cruel Prince a few days ago and I love it so much! I feel impatient because I can't spend the whole day reading it and then moving on to The Wicked King (which I also bought together with it) - work/real life gets in the way. 

Your stories are still amazing after more than a decade. Keep writing wonderful stories... I adore your work, Holly Black! Thank you! 

I hope that I have the chance to meet you and get your signature on my books when you come here this March 2019 on your tour. I will bring the Ironside hardback copy that I spent almost 3 years searching for... Then it suddenly appeared in an unexpected place. :) *crosses fingers*",halamanization,2019-02-20 11:51:11
acksl7,"Thank you so much for the kind words about The Cruel Prince and The Wicked King. Unfortunately for everyone who has been getting the books early via ARCs, Queen of Nothing won't have any. Sorry! I know that means some extra waiting.

As for what I am doing next, I am actually not sure! I am still working on Queen of Nothing and after that, I am going to have to make some big decisions.",xxHollyBlackxx,2019-01-04 19:02:37
acksl7,"I am not currently planning any Modern Faerie Tale sequels, but I feel like The Darkest Part of the Forest, The Cruel Prince, and The Wicked King are in the same vein. It's been fun to return to Faerie in those books.",xxHollyBlackxx,2019-01-04 19:43:37
acksl7,"Thank you!

My favorite character to write in The Cruel Prince is Jude -- but I also love writing Cardan. And I like all of Madoc's evil old guy advice.",xxHollyBlackxx,2019-01-04 19:54:01
1b2w293,"Well, it's a spin off but I didn't really enjoy it, not as much as the Cruel Prince trilogy.",MadMaxine666,2024-03-01 10:29:52
swn243,I just read the cruel prince and I don’t understand what’s so great about it? It seemed like a solid 3 star read to me.. nothing enticing me to finish the series,,2022-02-20 03:14:31
axcxwt,There’s been a couple of instances where I’ve forced myself to “ration” a book and limited myself to just a chapter or two each evening as a special treat. I see you mention below that you are reading THE CRUEL PRINCE... you may want to slow down a bit because the third book doesn’t come out until a year from now! ;-) ,minpeps,2019-03-05 00:07:49
axcxwt,I’m reading The Cruel Prince by Holly Black!,onefornine,2019-03-04 23:42:47
axcxwt,The Folk of the Air! Book 1 is The Cruel Prince by Holly Black,onefornine,2019-03-04 23:42:19
