post_id,comment_text,author,created_utc
nj12f3,"The Parsifal Mosaic was the first spy novel that I ever read and it remains my favorite to this day.  I do like The Bourne Identity, but the movies were bad.",ConstanceAnnJones,2021-05-23 07:38:49
nj12f3,"I haven't read the Bourne identity but have seen the movies.  I loved the movies, I will read the books now. I have read espionage, here's my take:

Ludlum and FF: almost the same plots,  1 crime org, 1 protagonist,  1 damsel in distress, great plot , great ending. Everything's good at the end. Having said that the most explosive novels from RL were: the parsifal mosiac (took me 7 years to complete, I tried reading it when I was too young for it), the matarese circle(best of them), the Gemini contenders (very solid plot), the rhinemann exchange. I have heard chancellor manuscript and road to gandolfo are good too.

Found Ken follett to be very near to RL, and FF in storyline etc. I have read his top 3( eye of the needle, triple, key to rebecca - all brilliant)


FF: 4th protocol is the best. The Odessa file is equally good. Day of jackal is a classic, you can't miss it. His others -  dogs of wars, devils alternative and icon are good too.

I read John le carrie's the spy who came in from the cold. Very dark, with uncertain ending. Definitely not ludlum  style and probably for a more mature audience/readers. I live in Berlin, DE. I could relate to the book and Tom Hank' Bridge of Spies.  Tinker tailor soldier Spy - saw the movie(great), haven't read the book.

Tom Clancy- just read Hunt for red October. Goosebumps. There are other good ones of his' - but I have a feeling it will get very "" Alec Baldwin patriotic""

I have read Aliaster Mcleans' - Ice station zebra(good), but Guns of novarrone is edge of the seat action. There haven't been thinner books with so much action packed into them( well, sounds like s*x , lol!)  So much so, I bought 2 copies of the book(old and new mass pp editions). Read it's back cover - thrilling!! Movie pales out in comparison. 

I want to read len deighton, haven't read it.

I have read Alan Furst's Black Star. Found him to be similar to John le carrie. Very good though. 

Other classics I have enjoyed were from jack Higgins (eagle has landed). 

If you know great espionage books with explosive stories do comment here. I feel goodreads does a ""not so good""  job at recommending similar books because there are sub pockets within espionage( Brad thor, Graeme green, Vince Flynn,  david silva). But indivual lists from readers are more helpful.",oak89poke,2022-04-01 22:43:18
35q69g,"My background: I read *The Bourne Identity* in college (2000-2005) if not earlier, and saw the movie at least five years after that, so neither were fresh in my mind, but my thoughts about them...

It's striking how much the book is a product of its time. Carlos the Jackal, more of less the villain of the book, is a real-life person who a 25-year-old today might have never heard of. The Bourne Identity was published in the middle of his career as a terrorist. In that and other ways, it was relatively well-grounded and realistic. (IMO, not that I know much about spycraft, but just comparing it to James Bond movies or whatever.) The movie, if I remember correctly, was more grounded than other major spy movie franchises, but a lot less than the books it's based on. I thought the book was OK. Some quirks about the dialogue in the book annoyed me, but it wasn't a huge deal. I thought the love interest in the movie felt kind of awkward and shoehorned in, but she was definitely there in the book.

[Ludlum's obituary](http://www.theguardian.com/news/2001/mar/14/guardianobituaries.books) is interesting. It gives him one backhanded compliment after another: ""the titles continued to sell more than 20m each, Ludlum's readers apparently happy enough despite the fact that his formula was becoming ever more transparent and repetitive... Not that Ludlum should be read as a serious political commentator in the way that one might approach Eric Ambler or John Le Carré. He himself would probably have disparaged any such claims, being much given to remarks like, ""I don't believe that my first name is Leo, or that my last name is Tolstoy. I'm a storyteller."""" So it's fair to say that the books have their genre - spy thrillers - but even the author himself wouldn't say it's for everyone.",cybishop3,2015-05-12 19:55:43
10gsg6,"Read the Bourne Identity and thought it was just OK.  The rapid way how the Canadian woman (Marie in the first movie) just falls head over heels for Bourne to come into her life turned me off as unrealistic.

The book differs from the movie in that it primarily revolves around [Carlos the Jackal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carlos_the_Jackal) rather than the US Government.  There fisherman and bank scenes are also covered far more in depth than the movie.  In the movie Marie is pretty useless whereas in the books she does a lot since she is a finance expert.  The couple are a fair bit older than they are portrayed in the films.",dylan78,2012-09-25 20:06:43
