id,title,selftext,url,created_utc,num_comments,upvotes,subreddit
17ozqfi,Dennis Lehane's Mystic River is a masterpiece.,"I have read one and only one book of Dennis Lehane. That is Mystic River. It's been more than 10 months since I have finished the novel. The characters have still stayed with me. Dennis Lehane's exceptional ability to write about childhood trauma, the way how traumatic event affects life, the way how traumatic people see the world, the way of people see love, marraige, loss of loved one, the ambiguity that comes with chaotic situations, the desperation to be loved and love, the pain with which humans has to live the life and what not!? His writing is extremely matured and realistic that makes novel a masterpiece.  


There's dark/realistic tone in the novel. It feels like I have seen people who are 45% of Jimmy Markum, I have a friend who is like 20% of Brendan Harris. The characters are so fu@king real. I just want to thank Dennis Lehane for writing this masterpiece. The novel will forever be remembered by me, till I breathe my last.  


Let's discuss how was your experience reading Mystic River. And let me know which other books has made you feel like this, and which author writes like this :)",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/17ozqfi/dennis_lehanes_mystic_river_is_a_masterpiece/,2023-11-06 10:25:36,21,44,books
15es29y,"[Series Review] Kenzie & Gennaro series by Dennis Lehane (author of Shutter Island, Mystic River, etc.)","I figured I should mention Shutter Island and Mystic River because people will recognize the movies, if they don't recognize the author. He's also behind The Drop, and Gone Baby Gone (which is part of this series). Plus several episodes of The Wire. The Kenzie and Gennaro books are his main series.

---

These books are a modern take on private detective novels. Even though there's plenty of dated 90's references (the driver popping in a Pearl Jam cassette!), it still feels pretty fresh. If you say ""detective novels"", people either think of police procedurals (Michael Connelly, for example) or crusty classics like Sherlock Holmes and Hercule Poirot. Somewhere in between we have stuff like this.

Patrick Kenzie is the son of well-respected fireman who taught him how to be tough, by beating him and his mother blue. There's a lot of references to ""The Hero""... his dad's public image, of a working-class good guy. What Kenzie saw is the crazy guy who stayed up late holding his palm over a flame and saying ""it can be contained"". When Kenzie and sister accidentally start a small fire, even though there was minimal damage (thanks to dad's obsessive fireproofing)... 'the hero' burns him with an iron.

Somehow, Kenzie ends up being a pretty decent guy in spite of this.

His partner, Angie, has a less fleshed-out past. An uncle in the mob is mentioned a few times but we don't meet him. She's described as the sort of smart, gorgeous, confident woman who should have gotten away from The Neighborhood and been destined for something better, but somehow she stays in Patrick's orbit. 

At the start, she's married to an asshole who beats her regularly. You can tell that this arrangement is unsustainable, because she has self-respect and Patrick hates bullies. It creates an interesting tension in the first couple of books. It's probably not spoiling much, to say that she and Patrick become more than business partners. 

I like that the agency is run by a couple. That's sort of unique to this series. Kenzie still feels like the main protagonist, but his other half is not a disposable lay or kidnap-bait. She's got equal billing in every book.

---

Still, there's plenty of familiar tropes. Like Spencer, Patrick has a handful of friends on the police force, and a sidekick who can play the 'heavy'... the guy willing to go to lengths, morally, that the hero won't.

The appeal of Lehane, for me, is he's got style but his books don't feel ""stylized"", like noir. The protagonist is not 'quippy'. Nobody has scary tracking skills from Vietnam, or punches like a pro boxer, or nails pistol shots at 30 yards. Kenzie struggles to pay bills, Genarro drives a beater, Bubba (the sidekick) gets pinched on a gun charge and goes to prison for a year. 

They're realistic, and that includes some uncomfortable realities. Patrick has to work for a big company when money gets tight, do work that makes him feel compromised, and figure out how to rein in his class rage and hatred for the morally bankrupt clients who pay his bills. His friend Bubba is tough, absolutely loyal, and openly racist. Patrick fights with Angie, and they separate for a while. He doesn't beat up his dad and tell him ""if you ever do that again I'll kill you""... Patrick has to endure him until cancer takes him.

When Patrick and Angie get out of close calls, it doesn't feel like they've got plot armor, it feels like they got lucky.

---

Lehane grew up in Dorchester (not Southie, but comparable), and he writes what he knows. The author has this time and place nailed down, and you swim in that vibe throughout. Think The Departed, Good Will Hunting, a bunch of Mark Wahlberg movies. Broke blue collar workers, old Catholic churches, 1st generation immigants with Irish accents, their kids growing up with thick Boston accents. Harvard Square, Beacon Hill, pizza joints and dockworkers.

It helps, in my case, to have listened to audio books with the accent included, though the first time I heard something like ""I followed the cah to the pahkway"" I kinda rolled my eyes. Some narrators are better than others. 

---

I would recap the actual books, but this is already pretty long for a reddit post. The books are all nicely fleshed out. Each is memorable, there's no repetitive ""this year's filler"" feeling. 

The 6-book arc is roughly the story of Patrick and Angie falling in love, breaking up, and getting back together again. In between, we get some pretty entertaining cases with bad guys who are actually disturbing... the friendly guy at the bar who's been torturing and murdering women for decades. The charming blonde sociopath who drives someone to suicide, and loves to play mind games with whoever he's targeting. The femme fatale who disguises her role as the bad guy, because her father might be even worse. 

The most memorable book, for me, is Gone Baby Gone. It features a genuine moral quandry, which is sort of Lehane's specialty. I won't spoil it. It's a major point in their lives, and it gets revisited in the final book of the series, which is unfortunately my least favorite. 

Moonlight Mile was written ten years after the 5th book, with the characters having aged appropriately, and it feels like there's a shift in how Lehane sees the world. He writes the characters as exhausted, sick from their constant contact with the worst people in society, struggling with bills and parenthood, and clearly having lost a step. They get in touch with someone they'd helped in an earlier book (though ""helped"" is debatable) and it's kind of gone to shit. 

The book is depressing, and there's a couple of scenes where it feels like Lehane has embraced a sort of bitter old guy mentality. He depicts a group of kids as unable to say anything other than ""like, ya know"", and in another scene there's a teen waitress portrayed as sullen and stupid, and Patrick rants about how kids today are vapid and new music sucks... it's feels like the boomers vs. millennial culture war you see on Facebook. 

The end of the book is relatively posivitive, with Patrick embracing his role as a father and husband, telling the boss to KMA, and hanging up his gun to go back to school. But the overall vibe felt like a less-than-happy end to an otherwise great series.

---

Thanks if anyone made it this far, this is a case of ""sorry I wrote you a long letter, I didn't have time to write a short one"".",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/15es29y/series_review_kenzie_gennaro_series_by_dennis/,2023-07-31 21:05:19,4,12,books
mo4oyq,Mystic River gutted me! Masterful psychological thriller,"Dennis Lehane's (Also wrote Shutter Island) Mystic River left me gutted, depressed, angry, and sad...I read the novel because Gillian Flynn recently interviewed him and recommended the book, said it was the novel that helped her finish Sharp Objects. As a huge thriller/psychological mystery fan, I felt left out because I have never read anything by this man.

The prose is spectacular! He paints a dark, raw picture of the lower middle classes, he does not shy away from the gritty stuff. The way he writes characters, relationships, and struggles is pure talent. From the first few paragraphs, I just knew I just knew that something horrible was going to happen to my favorite character. That feeling of dread carried till the end. The twists are spectacular. 

What did you guys and gals think about Mystic River?",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/mo4oyq/mystic_river_gutted_me_masterful_psychological/,2021-04-10 13:28:16,13,47,books
jv2xa5,Mystic River by Dennis Lehane [SPOILERS in post under a spoiler tag],"Just finished reading Mystic River - loved it! It was a fantastic thriller and I highly recommend reading it. Please stop here if you don’t want spoilers, there will be some in this post because I have a question. 
My one question that I’ve been racking my brain over. What does >!Ray Harris mean when he says to Jimmy “You can’t outrun a train”?!< It is ambiguous enough that I believe there to be multiple interpretations and I’d like to know what multiple people think. I’m not sure what I think. 

I’ve discovered that I love Dennis Lehane - read Shutter Island and then Mystic River, going to start in on some more of his work now too because it’s more than just fun. Any insights are greatly appreciated.",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/jv2xa5/mystic_river_by_dennis_lehane_spoilers_in_post/,2020-11-16 07:45:40,13,9,books
2naj4h,"Just Finished Reading ""Mystic River"" by Dennis Lehane, and Quite Impressed. Discuss, anyone?","Spoilers, spoilers, spoilers ahead! 

I hadn't read a good crime thriller/whodunit in a long while and I picked this one up. It has been a while since I've been so engrossed in a read. I thought Lehane did an excellent job developing the characters and setting the plot. 

I must say, I really felt for Dave Boyle here, but never as much for Jimmy Marcus or Sean Devine, but that's probably my personal bias showing. I saw Dave as an ultimate tragic character, always wanting to be liked and always fighting his inner demons ... but never quite winning either battle. He was betrayed by everyone, even his own wife. Poor guy (although i do wonder if he wuld've ever succumbed to his urges if he had lived ... we'll never know.)

There are, however, a few things that bothered me a little about the ending. 

1. the killers' motivations - (SPOILERS) I picked up on the fact that the kids had done it about halfway through the book, but I was surprised about their motivations at the end. According to their confession, they had done it for kicks. I thought that the mute kid would've had a deeper motivation, since his borhter was going to ""abandon"" the family to go to Vegas with Katie ... which seems like a good reason for the kid to get mad at her. Was there any conclusive evidence that the Harris kid did it just for kicks, or was that just his friend? To be honest, the coincidence seems a bit too much here. 

2. I kind of dont' really get the Jimmy Marcus-as-the-don of the Flats part of the epilogue. He seems to have used his actions with Dave Boyle (and Just Ray, I guess) to justify further criminal activity. Okay, but I had a hard time seeing why the author decided to take Jimmy in this direction. Any ideas?

Overall, a great book. ",https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/2naj4h/just_finished_reading_mystic_river_by_dennis/,2014-11-24 19:40:39,5,10,books
peqhu,"What excites me more than a great book in a thrift store is a bookmark in it from somewhere far away. Found in a copy of Mystic River bought in Boston, Mass.",,http://imgur.com/5aOlJ,2012-02-07 15:22:57,22,103,books
jke7u,"a quick interview with Dennis Lehane, author of Mystic River and eight other novels.",,http://goodmenproject.com/arts/a-conversation-with-dennis-lehane/,2011-08-16 12:23:33,0,0,books
